1. J Investig Med High Impact Case Rep. 2025 Jan-Dec;13:23247096251358660. doi: 
10.1177/23247096251358660. Epub 2025 Sep 20.

Hereditary Cancer Syndromes in Familial Breast Cancer: Insights Into Proactive 
Gastric Cancer Surveillance.

Wiese J(1), Sirigireddy S(1), Elghezewi A(1), Shanti I(1), Myers M(1), Dakkak 
B(1), Ben Khayal M(1), Wright T(1), Frandah W(1), Alagha Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, Joan Edwards School of Medicine, Erma Ora Byrd 
Center, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA.

Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) is a rare and aggressive cancer that 
accounts for 1% to 3% of gastric cancer cases, often diagnosed late with poor 
outcomes, and it is due to a mutation in the Cadherin 1 (CDH1) gene. We present 
2 sisters, ages 62 and 70, both carrying the CDH1 mutation, which is associated 
with significantly increased risks of HDGC and breast cancer. Both were 
diagnosed with invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast, a known manifestation 
of CDH1 mutations, emphasizing the need for genetic screening in patients with 
strong family cancer histories. Despite their elevated HDGC risk, the sisters 
declined prophylactic surgery. Instead, they pursued annual endoscopic 
gastro-duodenoscopies with ultrasound surveillance tailored to their needs. This 
case highlights the importance of recognizing rare genetic mutations and 
integrating family history into personalized clinical management.

DOI: 10.1177/23247096251358660
PMID: 40974220

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.

1. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2025 Sep 11:keaf482. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keaf482.
 Online ahead of print.

Is antimalarial use associated with a reduced risk of LN in patients with SLE? 
Results from an inception cohort-based study.

Kharouf F(1)(2), DiazMartinez J(1), Mehta P(1), Gladman DD(1), Whittall Garcia 
LP(1), Touma Z(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Lupus Clinic, Division of Rheumatology, Schroeder 
Arthritis Institute, Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Medicine, Hadassah Medical Center and 
Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: Antimalarials are a cornerstone in managing SLE and are associated 
with multiple favourable disease outcomes. This study explored whether 
antimalarial use is associated with a reduced risk of incident LN in SLE 
patients.
METHODS: We included SLE patients from an inception cohort with no prior history 
of LN, followed prospectively at regular intervals. The relationship between the 
exposure (cumulative duration of antimalarial exposure in years) and the outcome 
(development of LN, as indicated by new-onset proteinuria attributed to lupus 
activity by clinical judgement and recorded in the SLEDAI-2K sheet) was 
characterized using a time-dependent univariable Cox proportional hazards model 
to estimate the overall effect. Adjusted multivariable Cox regression was also 
employed to estimate the risk of LN, incorporating clinically relevant 
variables.
RESULTS: The study included 674 inception SLE patients, with a median baseline 
age of 33.6 years (interquartile range [IQR]: 24.9-45.4). One hundred and 
fifty-four patients (22.8%) developed SLE-related new-onset proteinuria, 
indicating LN, with a median time to event of 3.6 years [IQR: 0.9-8.8]. 
Cumulative duration of antimalarial exposure was not significantly associated 
with a lower risk of LN, either in the unadjusted univariable model estimating 
the overall effect (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.98; 95% CI: 0.94-1.02, P = 0.25) or in 
the adjusted multivariable model (HR: 0.96; 95% CI: 0.92-1.00, P = 0.08). This 
finding was also corroborated in a sensitivity analysis of patients with 
serologically active SLE (HR: 0.97; 95% CI: 0.92-1.02).
CONCLUSION: Antimalarial use is not significantly associated with a reduced risk 
of incident LN in SLE patients.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keaf482
PMID: 40974216

1. New Phytol. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/nph.70575. Online ahead of print.

Multiple hybrid zones involving four Cardamine species and their triploid 
progeny: watching allopolyploid speciation in action?

Zozomová-Lihová J(#)(1), Šlenker M(#)(1), Šingliarová B(#)(1), Pulišová K(1), 
Mandáková T(2)(3), Marhold K(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Botany, Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre, Slovak Academy of 
Sciences, 845 23, Bratislava, Slovak Republic.
(2)Central European Institute of Technology, Masaryk University, 625 00, Brno, 
Czechia.
(3)Department of Experimental Biology, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, 
625 00, Brno, Czechia.
(4)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University, 128 01, Prague, 
Czechia.
(#)Contributed equally

Hybrid zones provide excellent opportunities to study evolutionary processes 
linked to interspecific gene flow, including introgression, genetic erosion, 
polyploid establishment, and speciation. The genus Cardamine (Brassicaceae) 
serves as an excellent model for polyploid evolution, including one of the few 
well-documented neo-allopolyploid species that have evolved in the last 300 yr. 
Using a combination of flow cytometric screening of nuclear DNA content, 
next-generation restriction site-associated DNA sequencing, and genomic in situ 
hybridization, we uncovered an unprecedented case of extensive interspecific 
hybridization in Cardamine, involving four parental species and their 
predominantly triploid offspring. We demonstrate the recurrent and polytopic 
origins of both autotriploids and allotriploids, the latter integrating 
different parental genomes. Our findings highlight Cardamine rivularis as a 
central player in this system, likely producing unreduced female gametes at a 
high rate, which drives the formation of diverse triploids. However, this 
species may also face the risk of genetic swamping and ecological displacement. 
The substantial genetic variation of the hybrids, their high frequency, partial 
fertility, and efficient clonal spread suggest significant evolutionary 
potential. Overall, we propose that these hybrid zones provide a rare and 
valuable natural laboratory for studying the emergence of neo-allopolyploids and 
the mechanisms shaping polyploid evolution.

© 2025 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2025 New Phytologist Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.70575
PMID: 40974214

1. Hum Reprod. 2025 Sep 20:deaf184. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deaf184. Online ahead of 
print.

Cumulative live birth rates under three consecutive IVF/ICSI treatment cycles 
are reduced in women with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis diagnosed by 
ultrasonography.

Alson S(1)(2)(3), Stenqvist A(3), Sladkevicius P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Obstetric, Gynecological and Prenatal Ultrasound Research, Department of 
Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, 
Sweden.
(3)Reproductive Medicine Center, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

STUDY QUESTION: Does endometriosis and/or adenomyosis, diagnosed using the 
International Deep Endometriosis Analysis (IDEA) group and the Morphological 
Uterus Sonographic Assessment (MUSA) group revised definitions, impact 
cumulative live birth rates (CLBR) after three consecutive IVF or ICSI 
treatments?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Women with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis, as diagnosed using 
transvaginal ultrasonography, had a 15% reduced chance of having a cumulative 
live birth after three consecutive IVF/ICSI treatments compared to women without 
these conditions.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Women with endometriosis or adenomyosis reportedly have 
lower live birth rates after their first IVF/ICSI treatment. However, most women 
undergo multiple cycles, and given their shared pathophysiology, the combined 
impact of both conditions over consecutive treatments remains unclear.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: This was a prospective cohort study of 1035 women 
undergoing up to three consecutive IVF/ICSI treatments at a university hospital 
between January 2019 and April 2024. Swedish regulations entitle women to up to 
three subsidized treatment cycles, including fresh and/or frozen embryo 
transfers, until the birth of a living child is achieved.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: All 1035 included women underwent a 
transvaginal ultrasound examination prior to starting their first treatment. 
Using the IDEA and revised MUSA definitions, respectively, in total 293 (28.3%) 
women had endometriosis and/or direct features of adenomyosis on 
ultrasonography. All 1035 women underwent the first treatment cycle. In total, 
818 (79.0%) women [595 (80.2%) of women without endometriosis and/or adenomyosis 
and 223 (76.1%) of women with either of the diseases] underwent all treatments 
they were eligible for. A total of 217 (21.0%) women dropped out after the first 
or second treatment even if they had not achieved a live birth. In total, 1725 
fresh treatment cycles were initiated, leading to 1283 fresh and 622 frozen 
embryo transfers. Live births were recorded. The adjusted relative risk (aRR) 
for cumulative live birth after three consecutive IVF/ICSI treatment cycles was 
calculated on an intention-to-treat (ITT) as well as per-protocol (PP) basis, 
using a modified Poisson regression analysis, adjusting for age as a potential 
confounder.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: The CLBR over three consecutive IVF/ICSI 
treatment cycles was 666/818 (81.4%) in the total cohort. In an ITT and PP 
analyses, respectively, women with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis had a lower 
CLBR of 156/293 (53.2%) or 156/223 (70.0%) compared to women without, CLBR of 
510/742 (68.7%) or 510/595 (85.7%), P < 0.001. The aRR for cumulative live birth 
for women with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis was aRR (ITT) 0.80 (95% CI, 
0.71-0.90), P < 0.001, and aRR (PP) 0.85 (95% CI, 0.77-0.93), P < 0.001 compared 
to women without the diseases. After stratifying the results per treatment 
cycle, the LBR after the first treatment for women with endometriosis and/or 
adenomyosis was 90/293 (30.7%), aRR 0.69 (95% CI 0.57-0.84), P < 0.001, after 
the second 44/154 (28.6%), aRR 0.72 (95% CI 0.54-0.96), P = 0.023, and after the 
third treatment 22/84 (26.2%), aRR 0.83 (95% CI 0.54-1.28), P = 0.183. For women 
without the diseases, the LBR was 335/742 (45.1%) in the first cycle, 132/319 
(41.4%) in the second, and 43/133 (32.3%) in the third cycle. The largest 
differences were seen after fresh compared to frozen embryo transfers.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The ultrasound examinations were performed at 
a tertiary care hospital by an examiner with expertise in endometriosis and 
adenomyosis. According to the revised MUSA definitions, direct features of 
adenomyosis are pathognomonic, whereas indirect features are only indicative of 
the disease. It is possible that some women with only indirect features, who 
were considered healthy in this study, in fact had the disease and therefore 
were wrongly classified.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Despite a lower CLBR over three IVF/ICSI 
cycles, women with endometriosis and/or adenomyosis still have a reasonable 
chance of achieving a live birth with consecutive treatments. Negative results 
after the first treatment should not be an argument to withhold further 
attempts. Future research should explore strategies to enhance treatment success 
in this population, including the role of long-term suppression protocols, 
exogenous progesterone dosing, and personalized embryo transfer approaches.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This study was supported by regional 
research grants from Region Skåne, Sweden.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: N/A.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European 
Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deaf184
PMID: 40974212

1. Phytochem Anal. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1002/pca.70030. Online ahead of print.

The Tianma Anshen Dingxuan Formula Regulates Gut Microbiota and Metabolites in a 
Rat Model of Vertigo With Liver Yang Hyperactivity.

Fan X(1), Li H(2), Liu J(2), Lin Y(2), Sun L(2), Liu B(2), Zhao W(2), Yu Y(2), 
Zhang H(2), Wang M(1), Teng X(1), Yang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.
(2)Jilin Provincial Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.

INTRODUCTION: Vertigo is a prevalent clinical disorder that significantly 
compromises the quality of life of a patient. Among the syndrome patterns 
recognized in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), vertigo due to liver-yang 
hyperactivity (LYH) is the most common subtype. This study explored the 
underlying therapeutic mechanisms of Tianma Anshen Dingxuan formula (TADF) on 
vertigo induced by LYH through the analysis of gut microbiota and their 
metabolites.
METHODS: A total of 30 Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to control, LYH vertigo 
model, and TADF groups. The LYH vertigo model was established through 
intragastric administration of aconite decoction combined with unilateral 
labyrinthectomy. Behavioral changes and colonic histopathology were conducted. 
The concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), dopamine (DA), and 
norepinephrine (NE) in the rat hypothalamus were quantified using the 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The gut microbiota and metabolites 
were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and ultrahigh-performance liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS). Spearman correlation analysis was 
performed to explore the relationships among the microbiota, metabolites, and 
behavioral indices.
RESULTS: Treatment with TADF significantly improved behavioral indices (such as 
reduced head tilt, normalized reflexes) and colonic inflammation (lower 
histopathological scores, p < 0.01), whereas it significantly reduced the 
concentrations of 5-HT, DA, and NE in the rat hypothalamus (p < 0.05). 
Additionally, TADF modulated gut microbiota by upregulating both 
p_Patescibacteria and o_Oscillospirales while downregulating g_Bifidobacterium. 
Metabolomics identified 16 biomarkers (for instance, N-acetylneuraminate) 
enriched in pathways like tryptophan metabolism. Spearman analysis revealed 
correlations between microbiota (g_Ruminococcus), metabolites 
(chlorphenoxamine), and behavioral scores.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, this study is the first to demonstrate the therapeutic 
effect of TADF on vertigo-afflicted rats. TADF significantly improved the levels 
of microbiota-mediated metabolites by restoring the impaired gut microbiota.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.70030
PMID: 40974210

1. Cell Transplant. 2025 Jan-Dec;34:9636897251374203. doi: 
10.1177/09636897251374203. Epub 2025 Sep 20.

Correlation between the expression of soluble BCMA and short-term/long-term 
curative effect and survival outcomes of anti-BCMA CAR-T cell therapy in 
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.

Fu M(1), Niu S(2), Liu C(2), Mu J(3), Gao S(3), An G(1), Cui R(3), Deng Q(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research 
Center for Blood Diseases, Haihe Laboratory of Cell Ecosystem, Institute of 
Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin, China.
(2)The First Central Clinical College of Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, 
China.
(3)Department of Hematology, Tianjin First Central Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Nankai University, Tianjin, China.

This study aimed to investigate whether soluble B-cell maturation antigen 
(sBCMA) levels could be predictive biomarker for short-term and long-term 
therapeutic efficacy and survival outcomes following anti-BCMA CAR-T cell 
therapy in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (R/R MM). We enrolled 29 R/R MM 
patients who received anti-BCMA CAR-T cell therapy. In short-term observation, 
proportion of MM cells, expression of B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) and sBCMA 
in bone marrow (BM) were evaluated, along with adverse events, correlation 
between sBCMA levels and short-term efficacy or survival outcomes were 
evaluated. In long-term observation, expressions of sBCMA were observed up to 24 
months after therapy or until disease progression again in patients who achieved 
an objective response (ORR). Progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival 
(OS), correlation between sBCMA levels, and long-term outcomes were analyzed. In 
short-term observation, high expressions of sBCMA in BM were associated with 
poor efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy, while the proportion of MM cells in BM and 
BCMA expression in MM cells were not associated with poor efficacy of therapy. 
After 2 months of infusion, sBCMA levels decreased significantly, especially in 
patients who obtained ORR. In long-term follow-up, for patients who achieved 
ORR, the sBCMA levels significantly increased again when their disease 
progressed once more. Notably, R/R MM patients with extramedullary disease (EMD) 
demonstrated a higher likelihood of disease progression again. In patients 
achieved ORR, peaks of CAR-T cells correlated with proportion of MM cells, not 
with BCMA and sBCMA expression. Additionally, sBCMA levels were independent of 
cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune effector cell-associated 
neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) severity. We suggest that sBCMA levels in BM 
might serve as a predictive biomarker for anti-BCMA CAR-T cell therapy efficacy 
prior to treatment and for disease progression during long-term monitoring. The 
trail register name is China Clinical Trial Register. URL are 
https://www.chictr.org.cn/bin/project/edit?pid=28999 and 
https://www.chictr.org.cn/bin/project/edit?pid=53962. Registration numbers are 
ChiCTR1800017051 and ChiCTR2000033925.

DOI: 10.1177/09636897251374203
PMID: 40974194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.

1. Orthop Surg. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/os.70162. Online ahead of print.

Bibliometric and Visualized Analysis of Research Relating to Spinal Modic 
Changes Reported Over the Period 2004-2024.

Wei H(1), Lu H(1), Li L(1), Qu C(1), Zhang H(1), Ma X(1).

Author information:
(1)The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao, China.

OBJECTIVE: Modic changes (MC) are pathological signal alterations occurring in 
the vertebral endplates and adjacent bone marrow. These changes are frequently 
linked to degenerative disc diseases and are associated with low back pain 
symptoms. However, despite increasing research interest, existing studies are 
fragmented, mostly descriptive, and lack a comprehensive, quantitative 
assessment of research patterns, hotspots, and collaboration networks in this 
field. This study aims to evaluate the current research landscape and global 
trends regarding spinal MC using bibliometric analysis.
METHODS: We retrieved relevant publications on spinal MC from the Web of Science 
Core Collection database, spanning January 2004 to August 2024. Using CiteSpace, 
we conducted a comprehensive analysis of keywords, co-authors, institutions, 
countries, research domains, cited literature, cited authors, and cited 
journals.
RESULTS: This study analyzed 603 articles published in 168 journals from 193 
countries. China emerged as the leading contributor in terms of publication 
volume, while the University of Oulu in Finland demonstrated the most 
significant institutional impact. J. Karppinen was identified as the most 
prolific author, whereas M. Modic was the most frequently cited. Among journals, 
Spine accounted for the highest number of publications and citations. Key 
research hotspots identified through keyword analysis include "degenerative 
disease," "bone marrow changes," "abnormalities," "type II changes," "lower 
back," "protrusion," "discectomy," "paraspinal muscles," "obesity," and 
"overweight".
CONCLUSION: This study represents the first known bibliometric analysis and 
visualization of MC, offering clinicians valuable insights into research 
priorities and directions. Future investigations should prioritize the 
classification, pathophysiological mechanisms, and clinical significance of 
different types of MC, especially their roles in pain and functional impairment. 
Research should also explore the impact of obesity and paraspinal muscles on the 
progression of MC. Moreover, studies should examine the potential benefits of 
weight loss and muscle strengthening in alleviating symptoms. Finally, 
researchers should focus on leveraging artificial intelligence to improve the 
identification and understanding of MC.

© 2025 The Author(s). Orthopaedic Surgery published by Tianjin Hospital and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/os.70162
PMID: 40974190

1. Int J Urol. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/iju.70224. Online ahead of print.

RETRACTION: Astrocyte Elevated Gene-1 Promotes Invasion and 
Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Bladder Cancer Cells Through Activation of 
Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3.

[No authors listed]

Retraction of
    Int J Urol. 2018 Feb;25(2):157-163. doi: 10.1111/iju.13486.

X. Yang, L. Shi, C. Yi, Y. Yang, L. Chang, and D. Song, "Astrocyte Elevated 
Gene-1 Promotes Invasion and Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Bladder Cancer 
Cells Through Activation of Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3," 
International Journal of Urology 25, no. 2 (2018): 157-163, 
https://doi.org/10.1111/iju.13486. The above article, published online on 08 
November 2017 in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com), has been 
retracted by agreement between the authors; the journal Editor-in-Chief, Osamu 
Ukimura; the Japanese Urological Association; and John Wiley & Sons Australia, 
Ltd. The retraction has been agreed upon due to duplication of elements within 
Figure 1c, as well as between Figures 1c and 1d. The authors cooperated with the 
investigation and provided some data; however, the data was insufficient to 
resolve the concerns raised. Due to the nature of these concerns, the editors 
consider the results and conclusions to be unreliable.

© 2025 The Japanese Urological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/iju.70224
PMID: 40974189

1. Physiol Plant. 2025 Sep-Oct;177(5):e70520. doi: 10.1111/ppl.70520.

Exploring Multi-Omics Tools and Their Advancement to Study Drought Stress 
Responses.

Sonowal K(1)(2), Sharma S(1)(2), Kumar GA(1), Gupta V(1), Kumar G(3), Salvi 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Agriculture Biotechnology Department, National Agri-Food and Biomanufacturing 
Institute, Mohali, Punjab, India.
(2)Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad, India.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Griffin, Georgia, USA.

Climate change poses significant threats to optimal crop production, with 
drought emerging as a major challenge impacting food security. To meet the 
demands of a growing population under increasingly variable environmental 
conditions, it is central to comprehend plant responses to stress. Recent 
advancements in omics technologies have transformed our understanding of 
drought-responsive genes, associated networks and pathways at the genome-wide 
level. These tools enable comprehensive insights into the genetic and molecular 
mechanisms governing drought response and help us to identify critical genes, 
regulatory networks, and stress response pathways. This comprehensive review 
explores the potential of multi-omics approaches in plant functional genomics, 
aiming to provide a holistic view of drought tolerance mechanisms by integrating 
data from diverse omics disciplines. By unravelling the complexities of gene 
regulation, protein dynamics, and metabolic pathways, these integrative tools 
offer a path toward precise crop improvement strategies. Further, we have also 
discussed the challenges that persist in integrating these approaches to develop 
high-yielding, drought-resilient crop varieties. Overall, this article addresses 
the challenges of utilizing a multi-omics strategy to accelerate targeted crop 
improvement for drought stress response, and how this approach can help ensure 
global food security.

© 2025 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ppl.70520
PMID: 40974187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. BJU Int. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/bju.70006. Online ahead of print.

Feasibility of randomisation to radical prostatectomy or standard care in 
patients with metastatic prostate cancer.

Van den Eynde L(1)(2), Ost P(2), Verla W(1)(2), Everaerts W(3)(4), Fransis K(5), 
Uvin P(6), Ameye F(7), Van Erps T(8), Fonteyne V(9)(2), Van Praet C(1)(2), Lumen 
N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, ERN eUROGEN Accredited Centre, Ghent University 
Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Department of Human Structure and Repair, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Urology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Department of Urology, University Hospital Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(6)Department of Urology, Sint-Jan Hospital, Bruges, Belgium.
(7)Department of Urology, AZ Maria Middelares, Ghent, Belgium.
(8)Department of Urology, AZ Jan Palfijn, Ghent, Belgium.
(9)Department of Radiotherapy-Oncology, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, 
Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the feasibility of randomising patients with newly 
diagnosed metastatic prostate cancer (mPCa) to cytoreductive radical 
prostatectomy (cRP) plus systemic standard of care (SOC) vs SOC alone in Belgian 
centres.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a phase II, multicentre, prospective, randomised, 
open-label feasibility trial. Patients with newly diagnosed mPCa were screened 
across six centres from August 2018 to August 2024. The aim was to randomise 86 
patients to either cRP with pelvic lymphadenectomy plus systemic SOC or SOC 
alone (including radiotherapy in low-volume disease). Eligible patients had an 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status of 0-1 and were considered 
suitable candidates for local treatment. The primary endpoint was the 
feasibility of randomisation, assessed by the randomisation rate 
(randomised/eligible).
RESULTS: A total of 325 patients with newly diagnosed mPCa were screened, of 
whom 170 (52%) were eligible. The main reasons for ineligibility included 
unresectable tumours (42% [65/155]) and inadequate surgical fitness (37% 
[58/155]). Among eligible patients, 75% were excluded (127/170), mostly due to 
patient refusal (68% [86/127]) and inclusion in competing studies (21% 
[27/127]). A total of 43 patients were randomised: 21 to cRP and 22 to SOC, 
yielding a randomisation rate of 25% (43/170). Randomisation rates were lower 
than anticipated, limiting feasibility in the present trial setting.
CONCLUSION: Randomising men with newly diagnosed mPCa to RP plus SOC vs SOC 
alone proved challenging in this Belgian trial. Major barriers to recruitment 
included limited surgical eligibility and patient refusal. Targeted recruitment 
strategies or alternative trial designs should be considered.

© 2025 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.70006
PMID: 40974177

1. Cancer Med. 2025 Sep;14(18):e71235. doi: 10.1002/cam4.71235.

Prognosis and Failure Patterns of 11q13 Amplified Local Advanced Squamous Cell 
Carcinoma of the Head and Neck.

Jiang C(1), Dou S(2), Wang Y(3), Jiang W(2), Ye L(2), Li R(2), Fu X(1), Zhang 
L(2), Zhu G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Chest Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, Shanghai Ninth 
People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Department of Oral Pathology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Amplification of 11q13 (FGF3/4/19, CCND1) is frequently observed in 
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). However, there is a lack of 
research investigating 11q13 amplification as a prognostic marker for patients 
with locally advanced (LA) HNSCC who undergo postoperative radiotherapy (PORT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study included consecutive patients of 
LA-HNSCC who underwent radical surgical resection and PORT. The 11q13 
amplification was tested by next-generation Sequencing (NGS) or fluorescent 
in situ hybridization (FISH). Propensity score matching (PSM) was used to match 
the amplification and wild-type groups. Univariate and multivariate analyses 
were conducted using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression. Recurrence patterns and 
phenotypes in the amplification group were also assessed. Statistical analyses 
were performed using R software, with a p-value of < 0.05 considered 
statistically significant.
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients were included (35 in the 11q13 amplification 
group and 35 in the wild-type group). Patients with 11q13 amplification 
exhibited significantly worse disease-free survival (DFS) (3-year DFS: 21.0% vs. 
52.6%; p < 0.0019) and overall survival (OS) (3-year OS: 46.4% vs. 66.7%; 
p = 0.032) compared to wild-type patients. The recurrence pattern in the 
amplification group showed an approximately equal proportion of local-regional 
recurrence (LRR) and distant metastases (DM). The LRR predominantly occurred 
within the 60 Gy radiation field. Multivariate analyses revealed that 11q13 
amplification significantly associated with worse DFS (p < 0.001) and OS 
(p = 0.007).
CONCLUSION: LA-HNSCC patients with 11q13 amplification exhibited significantly 
worse DFS and OS compared to wild-type patients. The recurrence pattern in the 
11q13 amplification group was primarily characterized by in-field recurrences 
within the 60 Gy dose.

© 2025 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.71235
PMID: 40974176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Oncologist. 2025 Sep 20:oyaf297. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf297. Online ahead of 
print.

Factors Associated with Sleep Disturbance in Breast Cancer Survivors Over Time.

Marell PS(1), Vierkant RA(2), Larson NL(2), Ehlers SL(3), Donovan KA(3), Stan 
D(1), D'Andre SD(4), Couch F(5), Olson JE(2), Ruddy KJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry & Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) survivors frequently experience sleep 
disturbances, which may persist for many years after treatment. This study aimed 
to describe trends in sleep-related symptoms over time and identify factors that 
may be associated with sleep disturbances in BC survivors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Adult patients from the Mayo Clinic Breast Disease 
Registry were surveyed annually for up to seven years post-diagnosis. Sleep 
disturbance severity was assessed using numeric rating scales for difficulty 
falling and staying asleep. Data from 3354 unique patients were analyzed, 
excluding those with metastatic disease or recurrence. Univariable and 
multivariable analyses were performed at the one-year survey timepoint to 
evaluate disease and patient related factors that were associated with increased 
sleep-related symptoms, and these factors were also assessed in relationship to 
sleep-related symptoms over time.
RESULTS: In multivariable analyses, more trouble falling asleep was associated 
with financial insecurity, higher clinical stage, more cigarettes smoked per 
day, and less weekly exercise. More trouble staying asleep was associated with 
older age, race, advanced education, financial insecurity, and higher clinical 
stage. Over time, there was a non-significant trend toward increased trouble 
falling asleep and fluctuations in trouble staying asleep. Higher clinical stage 
and receipt of radiotherapy were associated with decreased severity in trouble 
falling asleep over time, while more cigarettes smoked per day was linked to 
increased severity in trouble staying asleep.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the complex interplay of clinical, 
lifestyle, and demographic factors in sleep disturbances among BC survivors, 
underscoring the need for tailored sleep management strategies.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf297
PMID: 40974175

1. J Surg Oncol. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1002/jso.70080. Online ahead of print.

Utility of the Social Vulnerability Index in Addressing Breast Cancer 
Disparities: A Meta-Analysis.

Nguyen AT(1), Li RA(2), Ontiveros NC(2), Adam TH(2), Hansen N(2), Galiano RD(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, USA.
(2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the utility of the Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) in 
understanding disparities in breast cancer screening, incidence, and mortality.
BACKGROUND: Despite major advances in breast cancer detection and treatment, 
significant disparities persist-particularly among socioeconomically and 
geographically vulnerable populations. The SVI, developed by the CDC, is a 
composite index that captures community-level vulnerability across multiple 
social domains and may serve as a tool to identify and address inequities in 
cancer care.
METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted in accordance 
with PRISMA guidelines and registered in PROSPERO (CRD42024616874). PubMed, 
Scopus, and Embase were searched for studies examining associations between SVI 
and breast cancer outcomes. Studies were evaluated using the Newcastle-Ottawa 
Scale or appropriate Cochrane tools. Meta-analyses were performed where 
applicable.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies were included. Seven studies examined screening; a 
pooled meta-analysis (n = 3) showed reduced screening in high-SVI areas (pooled 
OR: 0.55, 95% CI: 0.24-1.26; I² = 99%). Four studies reported reduced incidence 
in high-SVI populations, likely reflecting underdiagnosis. Five studies 
demonstrated increased mortality in high-SVI populations, with ORs ranging from 
1.09 to 2.84. Other studies addressed comorbidities, access to care, and disease 
subtypes.
CONCLUSION: The SVI is a valuable, multidimensional tool for characterizing and 
addressing disparities in breast cancer outcomes, with implications for public 
health interventions and policy.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Surgical Oncology published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.70080
PMID: 40974171

1. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2025 Sep 20:keaf505. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keaf505.
 Online ahead of print.

Phenotypic clusters of patients with Takayasu arteritis predict disease activity 
at presentation, damage and future vascular complications.

Avcu A(1), Jose A(2), Ganapathy S(3), Alibaz-Oner F(1), Kavadichanda C(2), 
Rathore U(4), Joseph Rajeev R(2), Thabah MM(2), Behera MR(5), Jain N(6), Ora 
M(7), Direskeneli H(1), Misra DP(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine, Department 
of Internal Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Clinical Immunology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate 
Medical Education and Research (JIPMER), Clinical Immunology, Puducherry, India.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical 
Education and Research (JIPMER), Clinical Immunology, Puducherry, India.
(4)Department of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Sanjay Gandhi 
Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, India.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, India.
(6)Department of Radiodiagnosis, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, India.
(7)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, India.

OBJECTIVE: To identify clusters of Takayasu arteritis (TAK) based on clinical 
features and their prognostic relevance.
METHODS: Using agglomerative hierarchical clustering, clusters were defined on 
phenotype at presentation from 564 patients with TAK from three cohorts from 
India and Türkiye. Angiographic involvement, disease activity and Vasculitis 
Damage Index (VDI) at presentation, initiation of glucocorticoids or 
immunosuppressive agents, requirement for vascular procedures, and new-onset 
vascular complications were compared between clusters [unpaired Student's t test 
or odds ratios (OR with 95%CI)]. Mortality rates [hazard ratios (HR) with 95%CI] 
were computed using Cox regression.
RESULTS: Three clusters were identified (1 and 2, with sub-clusters 2A and 2B). 
Cluster 2 was younger and comprised relatively fewer women than cluster 1. 
Clinical features and angiography in cluster 1 reflected more frequent 
involvement of the arch of aorta and its branches as opposed to a greater 
involvement of the abdominal aorta and its branches in cluster 2. Cluster 2B 
more often had pan-aortic disease and left subclavian involvement than 2A. Fewer 
patients in cluster 2A were initiated on glucocorticoids [OR adjusted for center 
(aOR) 0.51 (0.31-0.83)] or immunosuppressants [aOR 0.35 (0.20-0.60)] or 
developed new-onset vascular complications [aOR 0.22 (0.07-0.74)] than cluster 
1. Cluster 2B had higher VDI (3.98) than clusters 1(3.50) or 2A (2.46) and 
required more frequent vascular interventions than Cluster 1 or 2A (aOR 
1.73-1.88, p < 0.05). Survival was similar across clusters [HR 2A vs 1 0.99 
(0.43-2.29), 2B vs 1 1.20 (0.84-1.70)].
CONCLUSION: Phenotypic clusters of TAK reflected distinct angiographic 
involvement with prognostic implications.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keaf505
PMID: 40974164

1. Br J Radiol. 2025 Sep 20:tqaf233. doi: 10.1093/bjr/tqaf233. Online ahead of 
print.

Disparities in Imaging and Management of Multiple Sclerosis: A Review.

Tran A(1), Grant GF(1), Akande OP(1), Sadigh G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California, Irvine, 
Orange, CA, 92868, USA.

Despite advancements in multiple sclerosis (MS) imaging and treatment, there are 
sex-specific differences and disparities across sociodemographic factors (e.g., 
race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, health literacy, and geography) that can 
result in disparate clinical presentation, diagnosis, management, and outcomes. 
These social determinants of health often intersect, limiting access to MRI or 
disease-modifying therapies. Financial and geographic barriers can delay 
diagnosis and treatment, particularly in rural or underserved areas. Patients 
with low health literacy may have difficulty navigating care, while 
provider-related factors, like implicit biases and varying practices in 
low-resource settings, contribute to unequal imaging and treatment utilization. 
Radiologists are uniquely positioned to help reduce these inequities. By 
collaborating with clinical teams, standardizing imaging protocols, and 
expanding access through extended service hours and patient navigation programs, 
radiology practices can address many barriers. Subspecialized neuroradiology 
expertise, delivered through teleradiology, can help mitigate diagnostic 
disparities in underserved regions. Radiologists can support health equity by 
engaging in community outreach to improve health literacy and by working to 
increase workforce diversity. This review examines the intersection of clinical 
and radiologic disparities in MS, identifies key barriers to imaging access and 
utilization, and highlights how radiology can promote equitable MS care to 
improve outcomes across all populations.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Institute of Radiology.

DOI: 10.1093/bjr/tqaf233
PMID: 40974146

1. Am J Hypertens. 2025 Sep 20:hpaf191. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpaf191. Online ahead of
 print.

Clinical Utility of miR-590-5p as a Biomarker for Stratifying Disease Severity 
and Anticipating Adverse Perinatal Outcomes in Preeclamptic Patients.

Cao Y(1), Ding Y(2), Wang J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, State Grid Corporation of China 
Beijing Electric Power Hospital, Beijing, 100071, China.
(2)Department of Ultrasound Medicine, Jinjiang Municipal Hospital, Jinjiang, 
362200, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics, The Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Suzhou, 215000, China.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hypertension, gestational hypertension (GH), and 
preeclampsia (PE) together comprise hypertensive disorders complicating 
pregnancy (HDCP). They are one of the most common complications of pregnancy. 
Aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression may signal PE and adverse outcomes.
AIMS: Study of the clinical relevance of miR-590-5p in evaluating disease 
severity and predicting adverse pregnancy outcomes in PE.
METHODS: Totally 240 subjects were enrolled in this study, including 60 patients 
with GH, 120 patients with PE, and 60 healthy controls (HC). The PE group 
consisted of 60 mild PE (MP) and 60 severe PE (SP). The RT-qPCR was employed to 
detect the serum miR-590-5p expression. ROC curves and logistic regression were 
used to analyze their diagnostic value. PE patients were grouped by miR-590-5p 
expression and followed until delivery. The Kaplan-Meier method was employed to 
investigate the influence of miR-590-5p expression on pregnancy outcome in 
patients with PE.
RESULTS: MiR-590-5p expression was increased in GH, which was further elevated 
in PE. MiR-590-5p expression was shown to be greater in SP than in MP. 
MiR-590-5p could differentiate between GH/PE (AUC = 0.921, sensitivity = 80.0%, 
specificity = 91.7%) and MP/SP (AUC = 0.910, sensitivity = 82.0%, 
specificity = 85.0%). The level of miR-590-5p expression was correlated 
positively with blood pressure, urinary protein, and creatinine, and negatively 
with platelets and neonatal weight. The miR-590-5p high-expression group of 
patients had a lower probability of normal delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: Up-regulation of miR-590-5p might help to diagnose PE, depicting 
the severity of PE, and positively correlate with adverse pregnancy outcomes.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Journal of Hypertension, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpaf191
PMID: 40974143

1. Adv Healthc Mater. 2025 Sep 20:e01614. doi: 10.1002/adhm.202501614. Online
ahead  of print.

A Novel Core-Shell Hydrogel 3D Model for Studying Macrophage Mechanosensing and 
Foreign Body Giant Cell Formation.

Mahanty M(1), Ou W(2), Zhu X(3), Bromberg JS(4), He X(2), Rahaman SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Science, University of Maryland, College 
Park, MD, 20742, USA.
(2)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland, College Park, 
MD, 20742, USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, 
20742, USA.
(4)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21201, USA.

The foreign body response (FBR) to biomaterials is primarily driven by 
macrophages. At implant sites, macrophages often fuse into destructive foreign 
body giant cells (FBGCs), yet FBGC-targeted treatments for FBR remain elusive. 
To fill this knowledge gap, a novel microscale core-shell hydrogel 3D model is 
developed using heterogeneous alginate-collagen microcapsules with varying 
matrix stiffness to culture macrophages. This 3D model more closely replicates 
in vivo conditions. This model is further used to investigate the effects of 
stiffness and TRPV4 (transient receptor potential vanilloid 4) on FBGC 
formation. Stiffer 3D hydrogel robustly enhances FBGC formation and F-actin 
production in wild-type macrophages compared to softer hydrogel, with IL4 and 
GMCSF priming amplifying these effects. Crucially, TRPV4-null macrophages 
exhibit reduced FBGC formation and F-actin production, underscoring TRPV4's role 
in mechanosensing. Further, the N-terminal residues 1-130 of TRPV4 are 
identified as critical for FBGC formation and F-actin generation. RNA-seq data 
reveal that TRPV4 modulates inflammatory, fibrotic, and mechanosensitive gene 
expression in macrophages in 3D environments, offering insights into how TRPV4 
governs FBR. Overall, the data establish this 3D model as a powerful tool for 
biomaterials research and highlight TRPV4 as a key player in macrophage 
mechanosensing and FBGC formation in 3D condition.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Healthcare Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adhm.202501614
PMID: 40974126

1. Adv Healthc Mater. 2025 Sep 20:e02151. doi: 10.1002/adhm.202502151. Online
ahead  of print.

CCR2-Engineered Macrophage Membrane-Coated Metal-Polyphenol Nanozyme to Enhance 
Antioxidation Activity for Inhibiting the Atherosclerotic Progression.

Yan M(1), Zhong Y(1)(2), Ni S(1), Zhang S(1), Jiang Y(1), Zhu L(1), Zhang K(1), 
Cai K(1), Qu K(1), Li C(1), Wu W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Biorheological Science & Technology of Ministry of 
Education, State & Local Joint Engineering Laboratory for Vascular Implants, 
Bioengineering College of Chongqing University, Chongqing University Three 
Gorges Hospital, Chongqing University Central Hospital, Chongqing, 400044, 
China.
(2)Jinfeng Laboratory, Chongqing, 401329, China.

Atherosclerosis (AS) is a prevalent chronic inflammatory disease characterized 
by excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and persistent 
inflammation. Polyphenolic natural antioxidants possess strong ROS-scavenging 
properties. However, the poor targeting ability and rapid metabolism greatly 
limit their further clinical applications. To this end, a multifunctional 
biomimetic nanoplatform (CCR2@NPs) is developed by engineering macrophage 
membranes with the overexpressed C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) and 
subsequently enhances the target delivery to inflammatory lesions of AS via the 
C-C motif ligand 2 (CCL2)/CCR2 chemotactic signaling pathway for significantly 
improving drug bioavailability. In pathological local lesions, CCR2@NPs can 
effectively scavenge the excessive ROS, alleviate vascular injury, and finally 
inhibit AS progression. This strategy enables precise, synergistic therapy and 
offers new insights into the potential treatment approaches for AS.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adhm.202502151
PMID: 40974123

1. New Phytol. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/nph.70567. Online ahead of print.

DNA methylation contributes to plant acclimation to naturally fluctuating light.

Emmerson RA(1), Davey P(1), Kandjoze M(1), Bechtold U(1), Zabet NR(2), Lawson 
T(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Essex, Colchester, CO4 3SQ, UK.
(2)Blizard Institute, Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Queen Mary University of London, London, E1 2AT, UK.

Plants in the natural environment experience continuous dynamic changes in light 
intensity. Here, we exposed Arabidopsis thaliana plants to naturally fluctuating 
light (FL) regimes alongside traditional square light (SQ) regimes such as those 
often found in control environment growth chambers. The physiological response 
was highly consistent across experiments in sibling plants, indicating the 
possibility of an epigenetic mechanism, leading us to investigate differences in 
DNA methylation. Our results identified a large number of changes in DNA 
methylation patterns between FL-acclimated plants and SQ-acclimated plants, 
demonstrating that natural fluctuations in light impact plant epigenetic 
mechanisms. Most importantly, there are more differences in DNA methylation 
patterns between different light pattern regimes than between different light 
intensities. These differences in DNA methylation were accompanied by 
significant changes in gene expression, some of which correlated with altered 
DNA methylation. One of these genes, MCCA, was found to significantly impact 
photosynthetic efficiency when knocked out. Thousands of transposable element 
(TE) copies were differentially methylated between light regimes. Interestingly, 
up to 30% of these TEs are linked to nearby differentially expressed genes. Our 
data suggest DNA methylation plays a role in acclimation to natural light, which 
may directly regulate gene expression and impact TE activation.

© 2025 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2025 New Phytologist Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.70567
PMID: 40974118

1. IUBMB Life. 2025 Sep;77(9):e70060. doi: 10.1002/iub.70060.

Tissue Factor Driven Coagulation and Inflammation in Lung Injury: Insights From 
In Vitro and In Vivo Models.

Varughese A(1), Balnadupete A(2), Moideen FM(3), Madambath JT(1), Charavu R(1), 
Mugaranja K(1), Sunil P(4), Dhivya Dharsini DM(5), ArunBharathi A(5), Bhandary 
YP(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics Division, Yenepoya Research Center, 
Yenepoya (Deemed to be University), Mangalore, India.
(2)University of Texas Health Science Centre at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, USA.
(3)IQRAA Centre for Research and Development, IQRAA International Hospital and 
Research Centre, Calicut, Kerala, India.
(4)Division of Data Analytics, Bioinformatics and Structural Biology (DABS), 
Yenepoya Research Centre, Yenepoya (Deemed to be University), Mangalore, 
Karnataka, India.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(6)Specialized Research Unit, Yenepoya Medical College and Hospital, Yenepoya 
(Deemed to be University), Mangalore, Karnataka, India.

Lung injury and fibrosis involve a complex interplay between inflammation and 
coagulation, with tissue factor (TF/CF-III/Thromboplastin/CD142) acting as a 
crucial mediator. Despite its known role in initiating the extrinsic coagulation 
cascade, TF's contribution to fibrin deposition in lung injury remains 
underexplored. This study examines the dysregulation of the extrinsic 
coagulation cascade and its pathological implications in lung injury, 
contributing to the progression of pulmonary fibrosis (PF). Utilizing bleomycin 
(BLM), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), and TF models, we systematically 
investigate coagulation-driven inflammatory responses in lung pathology. By 
integrating in vitro (A549 and Beas2b epithelial cell models) and in vivo 
(C57BL/6 murine models) approaches, this study elucidates TF-mediated molecular 
mechanisms driving inflammation, fibrin deposition, endothelial dysfunction, and 
fibrotic remodeling. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis 
highlights functional associations between coagulation factors (CFs) and 
inflammatory mediators, reinforcing their involvement in lung homeostasis. Also, 
gene enrichment analysis identifies key biological processes, including 
coagulation, fibrinolysis, and immune activation, emphasizing their role in 
disease progression. In A549 and Beas2b epithelial cells, CF-III, CF-VII, and 
CF-X expression increased significantly, with A549 cells exhibiting a heightened 
pro-coagulant response. Elevated IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β levels suggest an 
inflammatory amplification tied to TF activation. Immunofluorescence analysis 
demonstrates marked TF upregulation and TNF-α activation, reinforcing the 
interplay between coagulation pathways and inflammatory cytokine signaling. 
Histological assessments (H&E, and Masson Trichrome [MT] staining) in murine 
lung tissues confirm fibrotic and inflammatory changes, reinforcing TF's 
pathogenic role. Our findings establish TF as a key molecular driver of 
thrombo-inflammatory lung injury, providing potential therapeutic targets to 
mitigate fibrosis and improve patient outcomes.

© 2025 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.70060
PMID: 40974114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.16506. Online ahead of 
print.

Psychometric properties of the Infantile Neuroaxonal Dystrophy Rating Scale.

Girardi A(1), Abetz-Webb L(2), Rudell K(1), Atwal PS(3), Fay A(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Outcomes Assessment Science, Epidemiology and Real-World Evidence 
Science, Parexel International, London, UK.
(2)Patient-Centred Outcomes Assessments, Ltd., Springbank, Bollington, 
Macclesfield, UK.
(3)Atwal Clinic, West Palm Beach, FL, USA.
(4)Pediatric Neurology, UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital, San Francisco, CA, 
USA.

AIM: To assess the psychometric characteristics of the Infantile Neuroaxonal 
Dystrophy Rating Scale (INAD-RS).
METHOD: We retrospectively analysed interim data from the INAD Natural History 
Study using clinicians' ratings (n = 39) of patients with infantile neuroaxonal 
dystrophy (INAD). Data were analysed to explore the internal consistency, 
test-retest reliability, known group validity, and longitudinal changes of the 
INAD-RS.
RESULTS: The analysis identified good internal consistency, convergent validity, 
and test-retest reliability across scale domains assessing gross motor, fine 
motor, bulbar, ocular, and temporo-frontal functions, whereas the domain of 
autonomic nervous system function contributed weakly to the overall INAD-RS 
score. Furthermore, preliminary evidence suggested that INAD-RS total scores 
discriminated among clinical phenotypes and was sensitive to change over time.
INTERPRETATION: The psychometric properties of the INAD-RS showed construct 
validity and reliability for five out of six domains (autonomic nervous system 
excluded). The scale is a promising instrument for evaluating children with INAD 
in clinical research and clinical practice. Although promising, further evidence 
is needed to refine the scale and support its suitability for assessing disease 
progression in clinical trials and clinical practice.

© 2025 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.16506
PMID: 40974106

1. J Leukoc Biol. 2025 Sep 17:qiaf131. doi: 10.1093/jleuko/qiaf131. Online ahead
of  print.

Transcriptome-wide Mendelian randomization exploring dynamic CD4+ T cell gene 
expression in colorectal cancer development.

Deslandes B(1)(2), Wu X(3)(4), Lee MA(5), Goudswaard LJ(1)(2), Jones GW(6), Gsur 
A(7), Lindblom A(8)(9), Ogino S(10)(11)(12), Vymetalkova V(13), Wolk A(14), Wu 
AH(15), Huyghe JR(16), Peters U(16)(17), Phipps AI(16)(17), Thomas CE(16), Pai 
RK(18), Grant RC(19), Buchanan DD(20)(21)(22), Yarmolinsky J(23), Gunter 
MJ(5)(24), Zheng J(3)(4), Hazelwood E(1)(2), Vincent EE(1)(25).

Author information:
(1)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(2)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK.
(3)Department of Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, Shanghai Institute of 
Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai National Clinical Research Center for Metabolic Diseases, Key 
Laboratory for Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases of the National Health 
Commission, Shanghai National Center for Translational Medicine, Ruijin 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Nutrition and Metabolism Branch, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
WHO, Lyon, France.
(6)School of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
UK.
(7)Center for Cancer Research, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(8)Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Program in MPE Molecular Pathological Epidemiology, Department of Pathology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(11)Department of Oncologic Pathology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(12)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(13)Department of Molecular Biology of Cancer, Institute of Experimental 
Medicine of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic.
(14)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(15)University of Southern California, Department of Population and Public 
Health Sciences, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(16)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(18)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, 
Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(19)Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Cancer 
Centre, Toronto, Canada.
(20)Colorectal Oncogenomics Group, Department of Clinical Pathology, The 
University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC 3010, Australia.
(21)University of Melbourne Centre for Cancer Research, Victorian Comprehensive 
Cancer Centre, Parkville, VIC 3010, Australia.
(22)Genomic Medicine and Family Cancer Clinic, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Parkville, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia.
(23)Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Research Unit, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(24)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, UK.
(25)Translational Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK.

Recent research suggests higher circulating lymphocyte counts may protect 
against colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the role of specific lymphocyte 
subtypes and activation states remain unclear. CD4+ T cells - a highly dynamic 
lymphocyte subtype - undergo gene expression changes upon activation that are 
critical to their effector function. Previous studies using bulk tissue have 
limited our understanding of their role in CRC risk to static associations. We 
applied Mendelian randomization (MR) and genetic colocalisation to evaluate 
causal relationships of gene expression on CRC risk across multiple CD4+ T cell 
subtypes and activation states. Genetic proxies were obtained from single-cell 
transcriptomic data, allowing us to investigate the causal effect of expression 
of 1,805 genes across CD4+ T cell activation states on CRC risk (78,473 cases; 
107,143 controls). Analyses were stratified by CRC anatomical subsites and sex, 
with sensitivity analyses assessing whether the observed effect estimates were 
likely to be CD4+ T cell-specific. We identified six genes - FADS2, FHL3, 
HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRB5, RPL28, and TMEM258 - with strong evidence for a causal role 
in CRC development (FDR-P<0.05; colocalisation H4>0.8). Causal estimates varied 
by CD4+ T cell subtype, activation state, CRC subsite and sex. However, many of 
genetic proxies used to instrument gene expression in CD4+ T cells also act as 
eQTLs in other tissues, highlighting the challenges of using genetic proxies to 
instrument tissue-specific expression changes. We demonstrate the importance of 
capturing the dynamic nature of CD4+ T cells in understanding CRC risk, and 
prioritize genes for further investigation in cancer prevention.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for Leukocyte Biology.

DOI: 10.1093/jleuko/qiaf131
PMID: 40974097

1. J Leukoc Biol. 2025 Sep 17:qiaf130. doi: 10.1093/jleuko/qiaf130. Online ahead
of  print.

Harnessing scRNA-seq and bulk RNA-seq to identify CD39+T cell genes for 
rheumatoid arthritis diagnosis and therapy.

Yun D(1), Xu C(2), Yu H(3), Liu X(1), Liu D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, 201399, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 201399, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, 201399, People's Republic of China.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a prevalent autoimmune disorder with an elusive 
pathogenesis, hindering early detection and therapeutic advancements. This study 
focuses on CD39+ T cells, which play a significant role in RA, to identify 
diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. We analyzed scRNA-seq data from RA 
patients to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with CD39+ 
T cells. We then cross-referenced these DEGs with those from normal and RA 
samples to extract a CD39+ T cell gene signature. Functional enrichment analysis 
and machine learning algorithms identified key hub genes and assessed their 
diagnostic efficacy. We identified 13 genes linked to crucial biological 
pathways, including T cell activation, leukocyte adhesion, and ferroptosis. Four 
genes, including PELI1, emerged as central to these processes. PELI1 showed 
remarkable diagnostic value and was upregulated in RA patients. We observed 
distinct immune cell infiltration patterns based on PELI1 expression and mapped 
out a lncRNA-miRNA-PELI1 network. We also identified 41 small molecule drugs as 
potential therapeutic candidates for RA. PELI1 is a promising diagnostic 
biomarker for RA, contributing to the pool of potential biomarkers for diagnosis 
and therapy. Our study provides new insights into the role of CD39+ T cells in 
RA and highlights potential therapeutic targets for future research.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jleuko/qiaf130
PMID: 40974094

1. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2025 Sep 19:e32062. doi: 10.1002/pbc.32062. Online ahead
 of print.

Malignant Rhabdoid Tumors of the Liver Are Associated With Inferior Outcomes 
Compared to Other Extracranial Rhabdoid Tumors.

Bühner S(1)(2), Gastberger K(1)(2), Tüchert-Knoll S(3), Fincke VE(1)(2), Johann 
PD(1)(2), Melchior P(4), Teleshova M(5), Kachanov D(5), Shcherbakov A(5), Schmid 
I(6), Roka K(7), Siebert R(8)(9), Vokuhl C(10), Gerss J(11), Fuchs J(12), 
Furtwängler R(13), Frühwald MC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Swabian Children's Cancer Center, 
University Hospital Augsburg, Augsburg, Germany.
(2)Bavarian Cancer Research Center (BZKF), Augsburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital 
Augsburg, Augsburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Saarland University Hospital, Homburg, 
Germany.
(5)Dmitry Rogachev National Medical Research Center of Pediatric Hematology, 
Oncology and Immunology, Moscow, Russia.
(6)Department of Pediatric Oncology and Hematology, Dr. Von Hauner Children's 
Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Munich, Germany.
(7)Division of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, First Department of Pediatrics, 
"Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of 
Athens, Athens, Greece.
(8)Institute of Human Genetics, Ulm University and Ulm University Medical 
Center, Ulm, Germany.
(9)German Center for Child and Adolescent Health, Ulm, Germany.
(10)Department of Pathology, Section of Pediatric Pathology, University Hospital 
Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(11)Institute of Biostatistics and Clinical Research, University of Münster, 
Münster, Germany.
(12)Department of Paediatric Surgery and Paediatric Urology, University 
Children's Hospital Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(13)Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Children's Hospital, 
Inselspital Bern University, Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Extracranial malignant rhabdoid tumors (eMRT) are rare, highly 
aggressive pediatric neoplasms. While the liver is a relatively common anatomic 
site of presentation, the clinical course of patients with hepatic eMRT (eMRT-L) 
is not well described.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 30 children affected by eMRT-L treated on a 
consensus regimen provided by the European Rhabdoid Registry (EU-RHAB). Clinical 
characteristics, radiology features according to the Pre-Treatment Extent of 
Tumor (PRETEXT) system, treatment details, and outcome were assessed. We 
employed patients with rhabdoid tumors of the kidney (RTK; n = 30) and other 
eMRT (n = 60) as controls.
RESULTS: Median age at diagnosis was 8 months (range: 0-53 months), 16 of 30 
patients (55%) presented with metastatic disease. R0 resection was achieved in 
seven patients (23%). Most tumors showed PRETEXT Stage ≥3 (66%) and frequently 
exhibited PRETEXT annotation factors. One-year overall and event-free survivals 
were both 17% (95% confidence interval: 7.5-37). Compared to RTK and other eMRT, 
patients with eMRT-L had significantly inferior outcomes (hazard ratios 2.47 and 
4.39, respectively). Complete resection and absence of metastases were 
associated with improved survival. Consolidation therapies (i.e., radiotherapy 
or high-dose chemotherapy) were only rarely used.
CONCLUSIONS: EMRT-L represents a distinct high-risk subgroup within the eMRT 
spectrum, characterized by inferior survival despite standardized multimodal 
therapy. Current treatment approaches demonstrate limited efficacy. Our results 
highlight the urgent need for prospective, collaborative studies to refine risk 
stratification and to evaluate novel treatment options.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pediatric Blood & Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.32062
PMID: 40974093

1. J Econ Entomol. 2025 Sep 17:toaf222. doi: 10.1093/jee/toaf222. Online ahead of
 print.

A novel eDNA-based surveillance strategy targeting quiescent ticks in soil.

Christaki A(1)(2), Mavridis K(3), Giantsis IA(1)(4), Kashefi J(5), Scoles GA(6), 
Gundersen-Rindal D(6), Vontas J(3)(7), Chaskopoulou A(1).

Author information:
(1)European Biological Control Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Biology Department, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(3)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology-Hellas, Heraklion, Greece.
(4)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Forestry and Natural 
Environment, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)European Biological Control Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Montpellier, France.
(6)Invasive Insect Biocontrol and Behavior Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Beltsville, MD, 
USA.
(7)Department of Crop Science, Pesticide Science Lab, Agricultural University of 
Athens, Athens, Greece.

Ticks are obligate hematophagous ectoparasites with worldwide distribution and 
the ability to transmit tick-borne pathogens to humans and animals. Their rapid 
geographic expansion and abundance of multiple vector species emphasize the need 
for systematic tick surveillance. Current tick surveillance efforts target the 
host-seeking phase, even though ticks spend most of their life in the upper soil 
in a quiescent state. In an effort to expand the existing tick surveillance 
strategies, a novel molecular approach was developed for the detection, 
identification, and relative quantification of tick DNA in soil samples. 
Amblyomma americanum Linnaeus, Ixodes scapularis Say, Rhipicephalus annulatus 
Say, and R. sanguineus Latreille (Ixodida: Ixodidae), all species of medical and 
veterinary health importance, were employed for protocol optimization. Ticks 
(individual or pooled) from all life stages were spiked in soil, and DNA was 
extracted using a verified protocol adapted for arthropods. Tick DNA was 
detected with multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) using novel 
species-specific primers designed based on sequence dissimilarities at the 
ribosomal RNA gene cluster (5.8S-ITS2-28S rRNA genes) so that the PCR products 
for each species would be distinguishable by size in gel electrophoresis. 
Individual target species were successfully detected and identified from soil, 
while in pooled samples, all 4 species were clearly distinguishable. Detection 
sensitivity was as low as 5 eggs/40 ml of soil. Specificity tests revealed the 
absence of cross-reaction between species-specific primers and nontarget 
species. This approach could provide a robust, standardized, and cost-efficient 
technique for tick detection in locations of putative tick abundance, 
complementing existing surveillance methods and facilitating control 
interventions.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Entomological Society of 
America 2025.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toaf222
PMID: 40974089

1. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2025 Sep;51(9):e70078. doi: 10.1111/jog.70078.

Olaparib maintenance therapy for recurrent adult granulosa cell tumors: A case 
report.

Tsukahara H(1), Onoyama I(1), Hachisuga K(1), Yagi H(1), Yahata H(1), Kato K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Graduate School of Medical Science, 
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) are now available for advanced 
or recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer after platinum-based chemotherapy; 
however, there is little known concerning the use of PARPi for adult granulosa 
cell tumors (AGCT). A 49-year-old woman, who previously had primary debulking 
surgery and a second surgery for a first intraperitoneal recurrence, received a 
surgery for a second intraperitoneal recurrence of AGCT. Although she received 
paclitaxel-carboplatin combination chemotherapy and a combination of bleomycin, 
etoposide, and cisplatin after the surgeries for the first and the second 
recurrences, respectively, the risk of a third recurrence was considered very 
high due to microscopic peritoneal dissemination. Olaparib administration was 
initiated based on a FANCA mutation, which results in homologous recombination 
deficiency. The patient has been recurrence-free for over 4 years since the 
initiation of olaparib. This case highlights the possibility of using olaparib 
for AGCT with a homologous recombination gene mutation.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Research published 
by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.70078
PMID: 40974087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. J Med Entomol. 2025 Sep 17:tjaf106. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjaf106. Online ahead of 
print.

Minimum postmortem interval estimation using the development and gene expression 
patterns of Hemipyrellia ligurriens (Wiedemann, 1830) (Diptera: Calliphoridae) 
in Southern China.

Kang C(1), Li L(2), Shao S(1), Wang Y(1), Zhang R(1), Gao Y(1), Hu G(1), Guo 
Y(1), Liu S(1), Wang Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Research Institute of Forensic Science, Shandong Uinversity of Political 
Science and Law, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Drug Discovery and Translational Research for Brain 
Diseases, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.

The developmental patterns of the oldest developing flies are commonly used by 
forensic entomologists to estimate the minimum postmortem interval (PMImin). 
Hemipyrellia ligurriens (Wiedemann, 1830) (Diptera: Calliphoridae) are widely 
distributed in the Australian and Palearctic regions and are closely associated 
with human corpses. Here, the developmental pattern of H. ligurriens was studied 
under laboratory conditions at 7 different constant temperatures between 16 and 
34 °C. Five models were established for the study of H. ligurriens, including an 
isomorphen diagram, an isomegalen diagram, a linear thermal summation model, a 
nonlinear SSI model, and a logistic model. The lower developmental threshold and 
thermal summation constant of H. ligurriens evaluated by the linear thermal 
summation models were 8.99 °C and 4,967.35 degree hours, respectively. The lower 
developmental threshold, intrinsic optimum temperature, and upper lethal 
developmental threshold obtained by Optim SSI models were 12.56, 19.91, and 
33.21 °C, respectively. The expression levels of 5 genes (Hsp83, Hsp60, USP, wg, 
and amKI) were analyzed at sequential developmental time points to estimate the 
pupal formation time of H. ligurriens under constant temperatures of 16 and 25 
°C, and to verify the temporal regularity of this process. This study provides a 
foundation for forensic entomologists to accurately estimate the PMImin using H. 
ligurriens in future death investigations.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com .

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjaf106
PMID: 40974086

1. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2025 Sep 11:nlaf110. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf110.
Online  ahead of print.

Neuropathological findings of very low-density lipoprotein receptor-related 
cerebellar hypoplasia in a full-term fetus.

Newman JM(1), Vogel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Division of Neuropathology, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, United States.

Mutations in the reelin (RELN) extracellular matrix protein gene are known to 
cause cortical and cerebellar malformations due to disruption of normal 
neuroblast migration and localization during fetal neurodevelopment. More 
recently, mutations in genes encoding transmembrane receptors involved in the 
recognition of reelin, including very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR), 
have been linked to various dysequilibrium and ataxia syndromes. Radiologic 
findings in cases of VLDLR mutations include cerebellar hypoplasia with marked 
vermis hypoplasia and cortical simplification without lissencephaly. However, 
the gross and histologic findings in VLDLR-related cerebellar hypoplasia in 
humans have yet to be described in the literature. Neuropathologic analysis of a 
confirmed human case could serve to illuminate unique findings and further 
elucidate the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism of VLDLR gene mutations. We 
report the autopsy neuropathological findings in a genetically confirmed 
third-trimester gestation fetal example.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Association of Neuropathologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf110
PMID: 40974083

1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2025 Sep 17:ovaf118. doi: 10.1093/lambio/ovaf118. Online 
ahead of print.

Detection of multiple clones and extended-spectrum β-lactamase production among 
Klebsiella pneumoniae complex isolates from the milk of cows with different 
severity scores of clinical mastitis.

Rissetti RM(1), de Paula CL(1), Yamada AY(2)(3), Bertani AMJ(2), Costa 
ABN(2)(3), Sacchi CT(2), Campos KR(2), Guerra ST(1), Guimarães FF(1), Joaquim 
SF(1), Langoni H(1), Rall VLM(4), Bertolini AB(1), Paz PJL(1), Bello TS(1), 
Filho MFA(1), Panegossi LC(1), Reznik AU(1), Ribeiro MG(1), Camargo CH(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Production and Preventive Veterinary Medicine, School of 
Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University-UNESP, 
Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Adolfo Lutz, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Genetic, Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of Biosciences, 
São Paulo State University, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.

This study aimed to evaluate the antimicrobial susceptibility and clonal 
relatedness of Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates recovered from the milk of cows 
with mastitis in a large-scale study that clinical severity was scored. A total 
of 48 K. pneumoniae complex isolates were subjected to in vitro antimicrobial 
susceptibility tests (AST), PCR for carbapenemase-encoding genes and molecular 
typing by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Thirteen isolates, selected 
by PFGE type and AST results were subjected to whole-genome sequencing (WGS) for 
the identification of sequence types (STs) and the detection of antimicrobial 
resistance genes and virulence-encoding genes. A total of 39 different PFGE 
restriction profiles were identified. Thirteen different STs, including two 
novel STs, were identified among the 13 sequenced strains. The blaCTX-M-8, 
qnrE1, the aadA2, cmlA4, dfrA15, sul1, tetA, and tetB genes were identified. Two 
isolates presented the yersiniabactin-encoding gene ybtAEPQSTUX. K. pneumoniae 
isolates from the milk of cows with mastitis clinically scored revealed high 
genetic diversity, according to both PFGE and MLST analysis, as well as 
harboring resistance genes commonly found in human clinical isolates.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Applied 
Microbiology International. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/lambio/ovaf118
PMID: 40974080

1. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Sep 17:traf103. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/traf103. 
Online ahead of print.

The utility of artificial intelligence in the management of dengue fever: a 
perspective on future directions.

Hussein M(1), Ali E(1), Kamal Y(1), Elhouni A(2), Ems ELM(3), Eltayeb Y(2), 
Saeed AA(4)(5), Fahal AH(6).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Research Department, Dubai Medical College for Girls, 20170 Dubai, 
UAE.
(2)Clinical Department, Dubai Medical College for Girls, 20170 Dubai, UAE.
(3)Basic Sciences Department, Dubai Medical College for Girls, 20170 Dubai, UAE.
(4)Clinical Pharmacy Department, Mycetoma Research Center, 11111 Khartoum, 
Sudan.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmacyy, The 
National University-Sudan, 11111 Khartoum, Sudan.
(6)Mycetoma Research Center, 11111 Khartoum, Sudan.

Dengue fever remains a significant public health challenge, particularly in 
tropical and subtropical regions. With millions affected each year and the 
increasing prevalence of the disease due to urbanisation and climate change, 
effective management strategies are crucial. The incorporation of artificial 
intelligence (AI) in healthcare presents transformative possibilities for the 
management of dengue fever. AI-driven systems can improve disease surveillance 
by analyzing extensive volumes of epidemiological, environmental, and 
socio-behavioral data to identify early warning indicators and forecast outbreak 
trends. Enhanced diagnostic instruments driven by AI algorithms can expedite and 
refine case identification, especially in resource-constrained environments. 
Moreover, AI can enhance targeted vector control tactics by pinpointing 
high-risk areas and optimizing the implementation of preventive measures. AI can 
optimize resource allocation in healthcare institutions. These applications have 
the potential to substantially alleviate the burden of dengue fever, enhance 
patient outcomes, and fortify health system resilience. As AI technologies 
progress, their influence in public health is expected to grow, facilitating 
creative, data-driven strategies that correspond with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to enhance global health equity and disease 
prevention. Continued research, collaboration, and community engagement will be 
crucial to realising the full potential of AI in addressing this pressing public 
health challenge.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/traf103
PMID: 40974075

1. Mol Biol Evol. 2025 Sep 17:msaf232. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msaf232. Online ahead
of  print.

Functional determinants and evolutionary consequences of pleiotropy in complex 
and Mendelian traits.

Barbitoff YA(1)(2), Bogaichuk PM(1), Pavlova NS(1), Malysheva PV(1), Predeus 
AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioinformatics Research and Education, Belgrade  Serbia.
(2)JetBrains Research, Belgrade, Serbia.

Pleiotropy, a phenomenon of multiple phenotypic effects of the same genetic 
alteration, is one of the most important features of genotype-to-phenotype 
networks. Over the last century, biologists have actively debated the 
prevalence, mechanisms, and consequences of pleiotropy. In this work, we 
employed data on genotype-to-phenotype associations from the Human Phenotype 
Ontology and Mouse Genome Database, as well as genome-wide associations from the 
UK Biobank and FinnGen cohorts to investigate the similarities and 
dissimilarities in the patterns of pleiotropy between species and different 
trait types (i.e., Mendelian traits and complex traits). We found that the 
pleiotropic effects of genes correlate well between species, but have a much 
weaker correlation when comparing different types of traits for the same 
species. In all cases, however, highly pleiotropic genes possessed a common set 
of features, such as the broad expression across tissues, involvement in many 
biological processes, or a high number of protein-protein interactions of the 
respective gene products. Furthermore, we observed a universal tendency of 
highly pleiotropic genes to be under greater negative selection pressure 
compared to other groups of genes, including genes essential for cell growth and 
development. Besides, highly pleiotropic genes also show a significant 
enrichment of recent positive selection signals at pleiotropic loci. Taken 
together, our results pinpoint a common mechanism underlying pleiotropic effects 
in different trait domains, and suggest that high degree of pleiotropy plays a 
role in adaptation, despite imposing additional constraint on genetic variation.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msaf232
PMID: 40974070

1. J Infect Dis. 2025 Sep 17:jiaf484. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiaf484. Online ahead
of  print.

Mycobacterium tuberculosis PE_PGRS62 protein inhibits type I IFN responses to 
promote HIV-2 replication by directly interacting with IRF3.

Pan C(1), Xu H(1), Huang M(1), He J(1), Li S(1), Tao X(1), Cao T(1), Zhang G(1).

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases, Shenzhen Third 
People's Hospital, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, 518112, China.

Co-infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) and HIV-2 increased the viral 
load of HIV-2. Type I interferons (IFNs) are essential for limiting HIV-2 
progression. However, it is unclear whether and how Mtb affects HIV-2 
co-infection by regulating type I IFNs. Here, Mtb PE_PGRS62 protein was 
identified as an inhibitor of cGAS-STING-mediated type I IFN expression by 
performing functional screens. Ectopic expression of PE_PGRS62 impaired type I 
IFN expression stimulated by cytosolic DNA, while knockout of pe_pgrs62 
potentiated Mtb-induced type I IFN and downstream IFN-stimulated gene. PE_PGRS62 
interacts directly with IRF3 and inhibits the interaction of IRF3 with TBK1 as 
well as the binding of IRF3 to the IFNβ promoter. Furthermore, reduced HIV viral 
load was observed in pe_pgrs62 knockout Mtb-infected macrophages compared with 
wild type Mtb. These findings reveal an important mechanism by which Mtb 
infection promotes HIV-2 immune evasion.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiaf484
PMID: 40974064

1. Genetics. 2025 Sep 17:iyaf195. doi: 10.1093/genetics/iyaf195. Online ahead of 
print.

Genetic context of transgene insertion can influence neurodevelopment in 
zebrafish.

Moyer AJ(1), Chrabasz JA(1), Barcus A(1), Cheng J(1), Capps MES(1), Lalonde 
RL(2), Mosimann C(2), Thyme SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, The University of 
Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Developmental Biology, University of 
Colorado School of Medicine, Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

The Gal4/UAS system is used across model organisms to overexpress target genes 
in precise cell types and relies on generating transgenic Gal4 driver lines. In 
zebrafish, the Tg(elavl3:KalTA4) (HuC) Gal4 line drives robust expression in 
neurons. We observed an increased prevalence of swim bladder defects in 
Tg(elavl3:KalTA4) zebrafish larvae compared to wildtype siblings, which prompted 
us to investigate whether transgenic larvae display additional neurobehavioral 
phenotypes. Tg(elavl3:KalTA4) larvae showed alterations in brain activity, brain 
morphology, and behavior, including increased hindbrain size and reduced 
activity of the cerebellum. Bulk RNA-seq analysis revealed dysregulation of the 
transcriptome and suggested an increased ratio of neuronal progenitor cells 
compared to differentiated neurons. To understand whether these phenotypes 
derive from Gal4 toxicity or from positional effects related to transgenesis, we 
used economical low-pass whole genome sequencing to map the Tol2-mediated 
insertion site to chromosome eight. Reduced expression of the neighboring gene 
gadd45ga, a known cell cycle regulator, is consistent with increased 
proliferation and suggests a role for positional effects. Challenges with 
creating alternative pan-neuronal lines include the length of the elavl3 
promoter (over 8 kb) and random insertion using traditional transgenesis 
methods. To facilitate the generation of alternative lines, we cloned five 
neuronal promoters (atp6v0cb, smaller elavl3, rtn1a, sncb, and stmn1b) ranging 
from 1.7 kb to 4.3 kb and created KalTA4 lines using Tol2 and the phiC31 
integrase-based pIGLET system. Our study highlights the importance of using 
appropriate genetic controls and interrogating potential positional effects in 
new transgenic lines.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Genetics Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/iyaf195
PMID: 40974062

1. Genomics Proteomics Bioinformatics. 2025 Sep 17:qzaf081. doi: 
10.1093/gpbjnl/qzaf081. Online ahead of print.

Single-cell Omics Assessment of Mitochondrial Function: Current Status and 
Future Perspectives.

Zhang X(1), An P(1), Zhang Z(1), Hao Y(1), Guo X(2), Zhu Y(1), Gu Z(3)(4), Luo 
Y(1), Luo J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Health, Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for 
Food Nutrition and Human Health, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, 
China.
(2)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin 300308, China.
(3)Greater Bay Area Institute of Precision Medicine (Guangzhou), Fudan 
University, Nansha District, Guangzhou 511400, China.
(4)Institute of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China.

In recent years, single-cell omics technologies have seen significant 
advancements, offering new insights into the study of mitochondria. These 
technologies are particularly suitable for investigating mitochondria due to 
their capacity to address intracellular and intercellular heterogeneity. In this 
review, we categorize the mitochondrial dysfunction and variability identified 
in both pathological and physiological contexts through single-cell omics 
assessments. We examine the cutting-edge single-cell omics technologies and 
track the evolution of studies on mitochondria, highlighting the transition from 
low-throughput to high-throughput capabilities and from single data types to the 
integration of multiple genomic and phenomic profiles. Furthermore, we emphasize 
the applications of single-cell mitochondrial assessment methods in exploring 
mechanisms, disease screening and prevention, and their potential impacts on 
lineage tracing, drug discovery, and genetic counseling. Insights gained from 
single-cell technologies may lead to the development of novel therapeutic 
strategies, offering promising avenues for addressing diseases associated with 
mitochondrial dysfunction. Lastly, we identify the limitations of current 
methodologies and propose areas of focus for future research.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on 
behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China 
National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.

DOI: 10.1093/gpbjnl/qzaf081
PMID: 40974057

1. Schizophr Bull. 2025 Sep 17:sbaf156. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbaf156. Online ahead
 of print.

Age of Onset, Brain Controllability, and Working Memory Performance in 
First-Episode Schizophrenia.

Wang F(1), Liu Z(1), Yang J(1), Cheng P(1), Tan W(1), Huang D(1), Liu X(1), 
Zhong M(1), Yang J(1), Palaniyappan L(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, and National Clinical Research Center for Mental 
Disorders, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, 410011, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC, H4H 1R3, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, ON, N6C 0A7, Canada.
(4)Robarts Research Institute, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESIS: The onset-age of schizophrenia introduces 
considerable heterogeneity in cognitive functions such as working memory (WM) 
among patients. One of the key properties of the brain that varies with 
age-related development is the network-level controllability of brain state 
transitions. We tested the effect of onset-age on brain controllability to 
evaluate its impact on WM deficits in schizophrenia.
STUDY DESIGN: We examined the average and modal controllability of the brain 
connectome in 85 first-episode early-onset schizophrenia (EOS), 62 younger 
healthy controls (yHC), 71 first-episode adult-onset schizophrenia (AOS), and 85 
older healthy controls (oHC) during N-back tasks. We first detected the regions 
with illness and onset-age interaction in a whole-brain search, and then 
conducted a correlation analysis with WM performance and clinical 
characteristics, followed by an out-of-sample gene annotation analysis.
STUDY RESULTS: We detected the illness*onset-age interaction in the sensorimotor 
network, auditory network, and subcortical network for average controllability 
and the default mode network, visual network, and salience network for modal 
controllability (p-fdr < 0.05). The interaction effects in the visual and 
subcortical networks primarily resulted from the AOS vs. oHC differences; the 
effects in the default mode network resulted from EOS vs. yHC differences. We 
observed no significant correlation between controllability with cognitive 
performance or clinical characteristics. The affected regions had preferential 
expression of genes relevant to synaptic signaling and neurodegenerative 
processes (p-fdr < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Onset-age introduces considerable heterogeneity in the 
controllability over brain state transition during WM tasks among patients with 
schizophrenia.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Maryland Psychiatric Research Center. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbaf156
PMID: 40974052

1. HGG Adv. 2025 Sep 19:100520. doi: 10.1016/j.xhgg.2025.100520. Online ahead of 
print.

Genome-Wide Association Study Reveals Genetic Mechanisms underlie Eye Disorders 
and Comorbidities.

Hsiung CN(1), Chou WC(2), Hsu CH(3), Chen L(4).

Author information:
(1)Program in Precision Medicine, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan; Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Health Service and Readiness Section, Armed Forces Taoyuan General Hospital, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(4)Program in Precision Medicine, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan; Department of Medical Science and Institute of Molecular Medicine, 
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
lchen@life.nthu.edu.tw.

Eye diseases, including cataracts, glaucoma, diabetes retinopathy, and 
age-related macular degeneration, are major global health challenges and leading 
causes of blindness. This study leveraged genome-wide association studies (GWAS) 
involving over 100,000 individuals, integrating data from the Taiwan Biobank and 
National Health Insurance Research Database, to identify genetic loci associated 
with disease onset. Our findings suggest that these conditions are influenced by 
multifactorial etiologies, as pleiotropic loci including rs10811660, rs4710941, 
rs2283228 and rs7646518 were identified, linking ocular diseases to metabolic 
conditions. Notably, a strong genetic correlation was observed between cataract 
and depression. Mendelian randomization analysis further demonstrated a causal 
effect of depression on cataract risk, implicating shared biological pathways, 
particularly oxytocin signaling, in disease pathophysiology. This finding 
revealed a functional genetic variant near the OXTR gene, highlighting its 
potential as a causal candidate for genetic diagnosis in precision health. By 
bridging the gap between genetic discovery and clinical application, this 
research offers critical insights into shared genetic mechanisms across diverse 
health domains, paving the way for innovative diagnostic and therapeutic 
strategies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xhgg.2025.100520
PMID: 40974049

1. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1080/1744666X.2025.2564827.
Online  ahead of print.

Langerhans cell histiocytosis in the central nervous system, cranial and spinal 
bones: imaging features.

De Mori LH(1), Ribas GA(1), Dos Santos Oliveira L(1), Maymone WH(1), Hygino da 
Cruz Júnior LC(2)(3), de Andrade Lourenção Freddi T(4), de Souza SR(5), Ventura 
N(6), Corrêa DG(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Rio de Janeiro State University, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Department of Radiology, Clínica de Diagnóstico por Imagem (CDPI)/DASA. 
Avenida das Américas, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Department of Radiology, Hospital Pró Cardíaco, United Health Group, Rua 
General Polidoro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Department of Radiology, Hcor, Rua Desembargador Eliseu Guilherme, São Paulo, 
SP, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pathology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(6)Department of Radiology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Department of Radiology, Federal Fluminense University, Niterói, RJ, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare neoplastic disorder 
characterized by monoclonal proliferation and tissue infiltration by 
pathological dendritic cells, often associated with abnormal activation of the 
MAPK signaling pathway and BRAF V600E mutation. The diagnosis is established 
through clinical, radiological, and histopathological evaluation. It can 
manifest in various organs, notably bones, skin, and the hypothalamic-pituitary 
axis. The assessment of central nervous system (CNS) involvement in LCH includes 
both parenchymal and non-parenchymal structures, including craniofacial bones, 
hypothalamic-pituitary axis, and meninges.
AREAS COVERED: We used the PubMed database and reviewed relevant 
English-language literature published from 1989 to 2024. The sources included 
original researches, reviews and case reports, excluding editorials and letters 
to the editor. This review focuses on the existing evidence regarding the 
imaging, clinical, and pathological aspects of CNS, cranial and spinal bones 
involvement in LCH and its differential diagnosis.
EXPERT OPINION: Imaging plays an essential role in properly diagnosing, guiding 
biopsy and monitoring treatment. Computed tomography (CT) is particularly 
helpful for evaluating bone involvement, while magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
is preferred for assessing parenchymal brain and meningeal lesions. The disease 
can present in either tumoral or neurodegenerative forms, manifesting with 
varied symptoms depending on the affected region.

DOI: 10.1080/1744666X.2025.2564827
PMID: 40974043

1. Stress Health. 2025 Oct;41(5):e70106. doi: 10.1002/smi.70106.

Negative Life Events and Their Association With Stroke and Total Cerebrovascular 
Disease Risk: Results From a 10-Year Prospective Cohort Study.

Xing T(1), Yan Y(1), Tian H(1), Feng S(1), Yang W(1), Fan L(1), Lv J(2)(3)(4), 
Yu C(2)(3)(4), Pei P(3), Sun D(2)(3)(4), Kang K(1).

Author information:
(1)Henan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(3)Peking University Center for Public Health and Epidemic Preparedness and 
Response, Beijing, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Epidemiology of Major Diseases (Peking University), 
Ministry of Education, Beijing, China.

Previous studies showed that negative life events (NLEs) were positively 
associated with stroke. However, little was known about such associations in 
total cerebrovascular disease and the prospective evidence in the Chinese 
population. We aim to investigate the association of NLEs with cerebrovascular 
disease in this study. We used longitudinal data from China Kadoorie Biobank 
(CKB), which was conducted in Huixian, Henan, China. Cox regression models were 
used to calculate the adjusted hazard ratio (HR) and the 95% confidence interval 
(CI). A total of 60,356 participants were finally included, of which 12,349 had 
reported cerebrovascular disease (8643 for stroke and 7670 for ischaemic 
stroke). Participants who experienced NLEs had a higher likelihood of 
cerebrovascular disease (HR 1.10, 95% CI 1.03-1.18). For specific events, the 
HRs of family conflicts, job loss/retirement, and violence were 1.30 (95% CI 
1.07-1.59), 2.24 (95% CI 1.20-4.18), and 1.50 (95% CI 1.05-2.14) for ischaemic 
stroke. Exposure to economic-related events was associated with a 29.9% 
increased risk of cerebrovascular disease, 36.1% for all stroke, and 39.0% for 
ischaemic stroke among males. Various associations can be observed in different 
age groups. NLEs were associated with a higher risk of cerebrovascular disease 
and the associations could be observed in specific types of events within 
different gender and age groups in Chinese adults. Targeted prevention for 
populations with high stress levels should be performed by health institutions 
to control the cerebrovascular disease burden.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/smi.70106
PMID: 40974041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Am J Med Genet A. 2025 Sep 19:e64269. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.64269. Online ahead
of  print.

Mortality Patterns and Phenotypic Clusters in Trisomy 13: A Population-Based 
Study From Japan.

Kato N(1), Morisaki N(2), Moriichi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Specific Pediatric Chronic Disease Information, National Center 
for Child Health and Development, Setagaya-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Social Medicine, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Setagaya-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Trisomy 13, the third most common autosomal trisomy after trisomy 21 and trisomy 
18, is associated with a significantly high infant mortality rate. However, 
large-scale studies examining causes of death in trisomy 13 remain scarce. 
Therefore, we aimed to better understand the mortality patterns. To this end, a 
population-based study was conducted using Japanese population-based mortality 
data from the Vital Statistics Database (n = 4,230,092 death records); we 
examined early mortality and identified phenotypic subgroups based on 
combinations of co-occurring causes of death. We identified 150 individuals with 
trisomy 13 who died between 2019 and 2021. Cardiovascular disease was 
significantly associated with early mortality. Using K-means clustering based on 
principal components of cause-of-death categories, we identified three distinct 
subgroups: respiratory-dominant (19%), cardiovascular-dominant (64%), and 
multi-organ involvement (17%). The cardiovascular-dominant cluster showed the 
highest rate of death before age 1 (83%; p = 0.001), while surgical intervention 
rates did not significantly differ across clusters. These findings highlight 
phenotypic heterogeneity and may support individualized care planning for 
trisomy 13 and provide insights that may support future care and 
decision-making.

© 2025 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.64269
PMID: 40974038

1. Environ Sci Technol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.5c06285. Online ahead
of  print.

Rhizosphere Keystone Microbiomes Promote Invasive Plant Growth under PLA and PVC 
Microplastic Stress: A Comparative Study with Native Species.

Wang Y(1)(2), Luo X(3), Yue M(1)(2), Song B(3)(4), Karhu K(3), Razavi BS(5).

Author information:
(1)Xi'an Botanical Garden of Shaanxi Province (Institute of Botany of Shaanxi 
Province), Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China.
(2)Shaanxi Engineering Research Centre for Conservation and Utilization of 
Botanical Resources, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China.
(3)Department of Forest Sciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki FI-00014, 
Finland.
(4)College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Shenyang Agricultural University, 
Shenyang 110866, China.
(5)Department of Soil and Plant Microbiome, Institute of Phytopathology, 
Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Kiel 24118, Germany.

Global ecosystems are increasingly threatened by the synergistic pressures of 
invasive plant species and soil microplastic contamination, yet the mechanisms 
by which microplastics enhance invasive species establishment remain unclear. In 
this study, we employ a mesocosm experiment using two types of microplastics, 
biodegradable polylactide (PLA), and nonbiodegradable polyvinyl chloride (PVC), 
to compare the responses of invasive and native plant species. We measured plant 
biomass, nutrient fluxes, soil enzyme activities, and microbial communities in 
the rhizosphere using soil zymography and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Invasive 
plants experienced less growth inhibition than native plants under microplastic 
exposure, accompanied by the selective enrichment of bacterial genera in the 
rhizosphere such as Arthrobacter, Sphingomonas, Microvirga, and Azospirillum. 
These microbes were associated with more interconnected and stable microbial 
networks, which may have enhanced invasive plant tolerance to 
microplastic-induced stress. Our results suggest that microplastics can reshape 
rhizosphere microbial communities in ways that have profound implications for 
ecological restoration and invasive species management. Future research should 
experimentally validate the functional roles of these enriched microbial taxa in 
promoting plant resilience under environmental stress.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.5c06285
PMID: 40974033

1. Am J Case Rep. 2025 Sep 20;26:e948414. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.948414.

Alveolar Echinococcosis Mimicking Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma Leading to Liver 
Transplant: A Case Report.

Premec H(1), Barišić-Jaman M(2), Dinjar Kujundžić P(2), Sobočan N(1)(3), Mijić 
M(1), Lalovac M(1)(4), Paštrović F(2), Matišić V(5)(6), Grgurević I(2)(3), 
Filipec-Kanižaj T(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Merkur, 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Clinical Nutrition, 
Universitiy Hospital Dubrava, Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)University of Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)Department of Radiology, St. Catherine Specialty Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia.
(6)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital 
Dubrava, Zagreb, Croatia.

BACKGROUND Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a slowly progressive parasitic 
disease that primarily affects the liver and resembles primary or secondary 
liver neoplasms. Differentiating AE from other primary or secondary liver 
malignancies is of paramount importance, due to differing therapeutic 
approaches. The disease is uncommon in developed countries. Initial extrahepatic 
manifestation mimicking a primary biliary neoplasm is extremely rare. A broad 
differential diagnosis and low disease prevalence make the diagnosis of primary 
biliary AE extremely challenging. CASE REPORT We present a 32-year-old male 
patient with perihilar AE and no significant past medical history. The initial 
clinical presentation and radiological findings were compatible with the 
diagnosis of perihilar cholangiocarcinoma (Klatskin tumor). The patient 
subsequently underwent extensive invasive diagnostic procedures, including 
endoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, which 
led to choledochal perforation and biliary leakage, necessitating urgent 
surgical procedure, along with exploration, evacuation of enlarged lymph nodes, 
and subsequent histopathological examination. None of the procedures provided 
definitive evidence of malignancy. Only an ultrasound-guided percutaneous biopsy 
followed by histopathological examination revealed AE. Albendazole treatment and 
close follow-up were initiated. Subsequently, the patient experienced recurrent 
episodes of acute cholangitis. Recurrent cholangitis and perihilar biliary 
involvement, precluding radical surgical resection, necessitated liver 
transplantation. Ultimately, the patient underwent orthotopic liver 
transplantation from a brain-dead donor, with a favorable outcome. CONCLUSIONS 
Liver transplantation is a definitive treatment option for selected patients 
with perihilar liver involvement precluding radical resection of parasitic mass 
and recurrent episodes of acute cholangitis.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.948414
PMID: 40974032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Br J Dermatol. 2025 Sep 20:ljaf360. doi: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf360. Online ahead of 
print.

Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals transcriptomic landscape and potential 
targets for large/giant congenital melanocytic nevi.

Tan W(1), Chen Z(1)(2), Xu M(1), Chen J(1), Wu N(1), Wu F(1), Xie Y(1), Wang 
R(1), Xu X(1), Liu Y(1), Deng D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Shanghai Skin Disease Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Shanghai Children's Medical Center, School of 
Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: The pathogenesis of large/giant congenital melanocytic nevi (L/GCMN) 
remains poorly understood, presenting significant challenges for its treatment. 
To date, no treatment guidelines for L/GCMN have been established. Moreover, 
single-cell technologies have not been applied in L/GCMN research, impeding an 
understanding of the disease at the cellular level.
OBJECTIVES: To elaborate on the transcriptomic landscape of cells in the skin 
microenvironment of L/GCMN, explore the crucial molecular mechanisms of 
melanocyte pathological changes, and investigate their interactions with other 
cells.
METHODS: We used a combination of single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing of 
lesional and non-lesional skin samples from patients with L/GCMN and healthy 
skin samples. Moreover, we also conducted western blotting, qRT-PCR, 
immunohistochemical, and multiplex immunofluorescence to validate our results. 
Additionally, we isolated primary nevomelanocytes and explored the impact of 
TBX2 on the biological functions of nevomelanocytes.
RESULTS: Patients with L/GCMN have a higher density of melanocytes and enhanced 
functions in melanin-synthesis-related processes. TBX2 serves as a core 
transcription factor for a melanocyte sub-population that is specifically 
expressed in GCMN. It is closely associated with nevomelanocytes proliferation 
and melanin synthesis. Additionally, abnormal activation of the PTN-PTPRZ1 and 
IGF1-IGF1R signaling pathways has been detected in L/GCMN melanocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: The study provides initial insights into the transcriptional 
landscape and cellular interaction networks of L/GCMN, laying a foundation for 
further exploration of its molecular mechanisms.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf360
PMID: 40974031

1. Am J Med Genet A. 2025 Sep 19:e64258. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.64258. Online ahead
of  print.

Efficacy and Safety of Olipudase Alfa for the Treatment of Acid Sphingomyelinase 
Deficiency (ASMD): A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Antonello BB(1), Giovacchini G(2), Albuquerque ALB(3), Rodrigues CG(4), Dill 
LG(5), Dacoregio MI(6), Ribeiro PVZ(7).

Author information:
(1)Franciscan University, Santa Maria, Brazil.
(2)Faculty of Medicine of ABC, Santo André, Brazil.
(3)Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(4)Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Brazil.
(5)Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, Brazil.
(6)University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.

Acid sphingomyelinase deficiency (ASMD), or Niemann-Pick disease types A, B, and 
A/B, is a rare lysosomal storage disorder caused by SMPD1 mutations. Clinical 
forms range from severe neurovisceral (type A) to chronic visceral (type B), 
mainly affecting the liver, spleen, and lungs. Until 2022, treatment was limited 
to supportive care. The approval of olipudase alfa for the non-central nervous 
system (CNS) manifestations of ASMD marked a major advance, with trials showing 
improvements in organ volumes and lung function. This meta-analysis evaluates 
the broader clinical impact of olipudase alfa in ASMD. A systematic search of 
Cochrane, PubMed, and Embase identified RCTs and cohort studies on olipudase 
alfa in patients with ASMD. Primary outcomes included mean change in %DLco, 
%Liver volume, and %Spleen volume; other secondary outcomes were also assessed. 
Study selection followed PRISMA guidelines, and statistical analyses were 
conducted using R software. The study was registered in PROSPERO 
CRD420251032281. Three studies (One RCT) encompassing 46 patients were included. 
Follow-up duration ranged from 1 to 6.5 years. All patients received olipudase 
alfa; only one study included a placebo group. Pooled results showed a mean DLco 
increase of 34.63% (95% CI: 26.09-43.18), a liver volume reduction of -37.76% 
(95% CI: -49.78 to -25.75), and a spleen volume reduction of -49.46% (95% CI: 
-57.39 to -41.53) after 2 years. The olipudase alfa demonstrates substantial 
clinical benefits in ASMD, significantly improving lung function and reducing 
organomegaly. Further studies are needed to confirm long-term safety and 
efficacy.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.64258
PMID: 40974024

1. Brain. 2025 Sep 19:awaf346. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf346. Online ahead of print.

Staging Alzheimer's disease through amyloid and tau PET.

Johnson DR(1), Wiste HJ(2), Lowe V(1), Schwarz CG(1), Knopman DS(3), Vemuri 
P(1), Kantarci K(1), Boeve BF(3), Graff-Radford J(3), Cogswell PM(1), Senjem 
MC(1)(4), Therneau TM(2), Griswold ME(5), Hu M(2), Petersen RC(2)(3), Jack 
CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(4)Department of Information Technology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(5)Department of Data Science, University of Mississippi Medical Center, 
Jackson, MS 39216, USA.

A workgroup assembled by the Alzheimer's Association recently described a 
conceptual framework for Alzheimer's disease biological staging based on amyloid 
and tau positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. However, specific tau PET 
cut points were left to be determined, a step necessary prior to clinical 
application. We sought to operationalize and evaluate Alzheimer's disease 
biological staging by identifying meaningful tau PET cut points to define the 
four biological stages in a well-characterized participant cohort and describe 
the features of individuals placed into the different biological stages. The 
primary analysis included 896 participants in the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging or 
the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's Disease Research Center longitudinal cohorts. A 
validation cohort consisted of 328 participants in the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative. Both cognitively normal and impaired individuals with 
positive amyloid PET and evaluable tau PET imaging were included. Tau PET cut 
points were identified with Gaussian Mixture Models to characterize Alzheimer's 
disease biological stage in study participants with different clinical diagnoses 
and objective degrees of cognitive impairment as measured by Mini-Mental State 
Examination. A tau PET cut point in the medial temporal region and two cut 
points in the temporoparietal region were identified to collectively produce the 
four Alzheimer's disease biological stages described in the revised criteria. 
Increasing stage was associated with greater likelihood of mild cognitive 
impairment and dementia diagnosis and worsening cognitive performance on 
Mini-Mental State Examination and Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes, a 
result that was reproduced in the independent Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative cohort. This study provided empiric validation for the concept of 
using amyloid PET and tau PET to separate subjects with biomarker-proven 
Alzheimer's disease into four biological stages with distinct characteristics.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf346
PMID: 40974012

1. Clin Infect Dis. 2025 Sep 19:ciaf520. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciaf520. Online ahead
of  print.

Clinical Outcomes of Mpox Disease in Patients Treated with Tecovirimat.

Leocadio C(1), Garcia E(1), Lash M(1), Berardi J(2), Chan J(3)(4), Chasan R(5), 
Esquivel B(6), Foote M(1), Glesby MJ(2), Guerra A(6), Harris AB(6), Knutsen 
D(3)(4), Mannheimer S(4), Mazo D(3)(4), McLean J(7), McPherson T(1)(3), 
Meyerowitz E(8), Mgbako O(3)(4), Patel G(5), Pagán Pirallo PM(4), Radix AE(6), 
Riska P(8), Sayegh M(4), Seifu L(1), Shaw R(4), Zingman B(8), Zomorodi R(6), 
Zucker J(7), Wong M(1).

Author information:
(1)New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Queens, NY, USA.
(2)New York Presbyterian-Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(3)New York University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(4)New York City Health + Hospitals, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Callen-Lorde Community Health Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)New York Presbyterian-Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(8)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: There is emerging literature describing clinical characteristics and 
outcomes in patients with mpox treated with tecovirimat.
METHODS: We analyzed retrospective deidentified data from healthcare systems in 
New York City with the highest number of tecovirimat prescriptions. Individuals 
with probable or confirmed mpox initiating tecovirimat from May-December 2022 
were included. A chart abstraction instrument was used to extract demographic 
and clinical data from medical records. We examined factors associated with 
delay in treatment and hospitalization.
RESULTS: A total of 708 individuals prescribed tecovirimat for mpox were 
included in the analysis; median age was 36 years (IQR 31-43); 566 (80%) were 
cisgender men who have sex with men; and 399 (56%) were living with HIV. Side 
effects (100, 14%) and severe adverse events (7, 1%) were rare. The most common 
long-term sequela was scarring (69, 10%). One hundred and one (14%) were 
hospitalized. Median time from symptom onset to treatment initiation was 8 days 
(IQR 6-11). Non-Hispanic Black patients had higher risk of initiating 
tecovirimat ≥8 days after symptom onset (relative risk [RR]=1.3, 95%CI: 1.2-1.7) 
and being hospitalized (adjusted relative risk [aRR]=2.2, 95%CI: 1.4-3.5) 
compared with Hispanic patients, after adjusting for HIV and insurance status.
CONCLUSIONS: We described common reasons for tecovirimat initiation and 
hospitalization. There were racial inequities in hospitalization and treatment 
delays. More research and focused efforts to mitigate these inequities are 
needed. These findings may better inform decisions for treatment initiation and 
hospitalization for mpox.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciaf520
PMID: 40974008

1. Sci Diabetes Self Manag Care. 2025 Sep 19:26350106251371083. doi: 
10.1177/26350106251371083. Online ahead of print.

A Nurse-Led Intervention Program Using the LINE Official Account (OA) 
Application to Improve Self-Care and Clinical Outcomes in Patients With Diabetes 
and Comorbidities.

Meekaew P(1), Pichayapinyo P(1), Thiangtham W(1), Lagampan S(1), Supasyndh O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Nursing, Faculty of Public Health, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Phramongkutklao Hospital and 
College of Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand.

PurposeThe purpose of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a nurse-led 
intervention via the LINE Official Account (OA) application on knowledge, 
self-care, and clinical outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
comorbidities in Thailand.MethodsA cluster 2-arm randomized controlled trial 
with assessments at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks was conducted in 2 
noncommunicable disease clinics between October 2023 and March 2024. A total of 
108 participants were recruited and randomly assigned to either the intervention 
group (n = 55) or control group (n = 53). Using Orem's Self-Care Deficit Nursing 
Theory as a conceptual framework, the 12-week intervention included knowledge 
and behavioral assessment, health education support, and practicing reminder via 
the LINE OA application. The control group received usual care. Outcomes 
included knowledge, self-care agency, self-care behaviors, A1C, blood pressure, 
and microalbuminuria (MAU). Data were analyzed using t-tests, repeated measures 
analysis of variance, and Cohen's d.ResultsCompared to the control group, at 6 
and 12 weeks, participants in the intervention group demonstrated significant 
improvements in knowledge, self-care agency, and self-care. Clinically 
significant changes in A1C, blood pressure, and MAU were observed at 12 weeks in 
the intervention group.ConclusionThe study findings highlight the effectiveness 
of the nurse-led intervention via LINE OA application in knowledge, self-care, 
MAU, and A1C improvement. Extended study duration is recommended to assess 
sustainability for the future study.

DOI: 10.1177/26350106251371083
PMID: 40974000

1. Int J Dermatol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1111/ijd.70083. Online ahead of print.

Clinicopathological Challenge: Fixed Urticaria-Like Pink Papules in a Patient 
With Recurrent Fevers and Arthralgias.

Williams MCG(1), Turner N(1), Mendez L(2), Leventhal JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

A 67-year-old male with a history of macrocytic anemia presented with widespread 
pink urticarial papules on his trunk and extremities in the setting of 
intermittent fevers, lymphadenopathy, arthralgias, and night sweats. Repeat 
biopsies demonstrated mixed inflammatory infiltrate with eosinophils. 
Multidisciplinary workup revealed a UBA1 p.Met41Thr variant, confirming a 
diagnosis of Vacuoles E1 Enzyme X-linked Autoinflammatory Somatic Mutations 
(VEXAS) syndrome manifesting with urticarial dermatitis.

© 2025 the International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/ijd.70083
PMID: 40973999

1. Pediatr Transplant. 2025 Nov;29(7):e70184. doi: 10.1111/petr.70184.

Successful Liver Transplantation for Coats Plus Syndrome With Hepatopulmonary 
Syndrome: A Case Report and Literature Review.

Kojima M(1), Sakamoto S(1), Uchida H(1), Yanagi Y(1), Oshiro A(1), Fujimoto 
T(1), Komine R(1), Zavala EAM(1), Fukuda A(1), Kasahara M(1).

Author information:
(1)Organ Transplantation Center, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Coats plus syndrome (CPS) is a rare telomere biology disorder (TBD) 
linked to mutations in the CTC1-STN1-TEN1 complex and characterized by 
cerebroretinal microangiopathy, bone marrow failure, and liver disease, often 
progressing to hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS).
CASE PRESENTATION: The case is a 16-year-old boy clinically diagnosed with CPS 
at age 7. He developed exertional dyspnea at 14 with 93% of resting oxygen 
saturation (SpO2), 70 mmHg of partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2), and 22.9 mmHg 
of alveolar-arterial oxygen difference (A-aDO2) under room air, prompting home 
oxygen therapy (HOT). Imaging and liver biopsy showed significant collateral 
circulation and portal vein fibrosis and dilation without cirrhosis or pulmonary 
fibrosis. HPS was diagnosed by positive microbubble contrast echocardiography 
and 15.7% of shunt fraction in pulmonary ventilation-perfusion scintigraphy. Due 
to the rapid progression of HPS, he underwent living-donor LT. The postoperative 
disease course was good, except for acute liver rejection, and the patient was 
discharged on postoperative day 40. One month after transplantation, 
echocardiography showed a negative bubble study, pulmonary scintigraphy revealed 
an improved shunt fraction of 10.2%, resting SpO2 under room air was 100%, and 
he is doing well without the recurrence of HPS.
CONCLUSIONS: Historically, LT for HPS patients with TBDs was avoided because of 
uncertain prognosis and potential disease progression in other organs. However, 
early-stage LT in TBDs may be preferable and reduce the complexity of LT. Before 
irreversible changes in intrapulmonary blood vessels occur, early hypoxemia 
monitoring and regular imaging are essential to ensure timely LT for HPS.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/petr.70184
PMID: 40973993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. J Dermatol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1111/1346-8138.17968. Online ahead of print.

Prospective, Open-Label, Multicenter Study of Apremilast as Maintenance Therapy 
for Psoriasis Patients in Remission With Biologics.

Kamiya K(1), Yamaguchi Y(2), Saeki H(3), Kodera M(4), Tada Y(5), Morita A(6), 
Abe M(7), Okubo Y(8), Sano S(9), Ohtsuki M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, Japan.
(2)Department of Environmental Immuno-Dermatology, Yokohama City University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Japan Community Health Care Organization (JCHO), 
Chukyo Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Teikyo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(6)Department of Geriatric and Environmental Dermatology, Nagoya City University 
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan.
(7)Kojinkai, Sapporo Skin Clinic, Sapporo, Japan.
(8)Department of Dermatology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, Kochi, 
Japan.

Although biologic agents have significantly improved therapeutic outcomes for 
psoriasis, their long-term use can be burdensome for patients due to high costs, 
parenteral administration, and safety concerns. Consequently, some patients in 
remission wish to switch to alternative maintenance therapies to reduce this 
treatment burden. Based on our prior survey, the present prospective, 
open-label, single-arm, multicenter clinical study focused on patients with 
plaque psoriasis with or without psoriatic arthritis (PsA) who had achieved 
remission with biologics but were hesitant to continue this therapy. We 
evaluated the efficacy and safety of transitioning to apremilast, a 
phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor, for maintaining remission. Among 209 patients 
initially surveyed, 46 were enrolled, and 44 were included in the efficacy 
analysis. The study cohort comprised 30 males and 16 females, with a mean 
disease duration of 19.2 years, a mean Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 
score of 0.36, and a mean Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) score of 0.30 at 
baseline. At 24 weeks, the Kaplan-Meier (KM) median time to relapse was not 
reached overall; the KM remission-maintenance rate was 63.6% (95% CI, 48.8-76.3) 
when adverse event related discontinuations were counted as events, and 75.7% 
(59.7-86.8) when censored. The corresponding restricted mean survival time 
through 24 weeks was 20.31 and 22.03 weeks, respectively. Patients who 
maintained remission consistently demonstrated low scores (≤ 1) across PASI, 
Body Surface Area, DLQI, and American College of Rheumatology components 
throughout the observation period. A total of 34 adverse events occurred in 23 
patients, most commonly diarrhea, vomiting, and headache. All were mild, no 
serious events were observed, and all resolved without sequelae. In conclusion, 
for patients with plaque psoriasis with or without PsA who have achieved 
remission but are concerned about the burdens of long-term biologic therapy, 
transitioning to apremilast represents an effective and viable strategy.

© 2025 Japanese Dermatological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/1346-8138.17968
PMID: 40973989

1. Prenat Diagn. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1002/pd.6890. Online ahead of print.

The Expanding Role of Gene Sequencing in Shaping Fetal Therapies: Clinical and 
Ethical Considerations.

Shear MA(1)(2)(3), Borges B(1)(4), Lianoglou BR(1)(4), Lum T(1)(4), Canepa 
E(1)(4), Cohen JL(5), Brown JEH(1)(6)(7), Herzeg A(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Maternal-Fetal Precision Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine and Reproductive Genetics, Department of 
Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Division of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Division of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, Duke University, 
Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(6)Bioethics Program, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(7)Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.

In utero interventions are transformative in addressing genetic and anatomic 
conditions during fetal development. Next generation sequencing enables early 
genetic testing, playing a pivotal role in prenatal decision-making by 
supporting risk stratification, precise and timely diagnosis, which directly 
informs eligibility for fetal surgical and molecular therapies. Early diagnosis 
benefits both prenatal and postnatal care by guiding prenatal interventions, or 
selecting cases that might benefit from postnatal preparedness (when early 
postnatal treatment alters outcomes), and informing counseling (when it 
significantly influences pregnancy decision-making) and reproductive planning. 
The integration of artificial intelligence into prenatal care holds the promise 
of end-to-end solutions that streamline diagnosis, counseling, and access to 
both standard and experimental in utero interventions. However, significant 
ethical and social challenges remain, including equity in access to testing and 
care, incidental findings, variants of uncertain significance, incomplete 
penetrance and uncertain phenotype prediction of rare variants and disorders. 
These complexities raise important questions about reproductive autonomy and 
justice and responsible use of emerging technologies. This review emphasizes the 
intimate interplay between early genetic testing and in utero interventions, 
while highlighting the need for equitable, precise, and community-informed 
practices in prenatal genomic research and care.

© 2025 The Author(s). Prenatal Diagnosis published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.6890
PMID: 40973987

1. Aust J Rural Health. 2025 Oct;33(5):e70089. doi: 10.1111/ajr.70089.

Parkinson's Disease in Australia: Evaluation of Regional Differences and 
Health-Related Quality of Life.

Messing A(1), Hobbs MJ(2)(3), Quirk F(2)(4), Apthorp D(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)School of Rural Medicine, University of New England, Armidale, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(3)Royal Flying Doctor Service (Queensland Section), Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(4)Research, Innovation and Knowledge, NHS Fife, Kirkcaldy, UK.
(5)School of Medicine and Psychology, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative condition 
with no known cure. The prevalence of PD and barriers to accessing clinical care 
increase with distance from major cities. Understanding factors associated with 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in PD has important clinical and public 
health implications.
METHOD: In a national survey of Australian adults diagnosed with PD, we examined 
the influence of location on HRQoL and demographics, symptom course and 
diagnosis, treatment utilisation and preferences, and satisfaction with current 
services. Final data included 87 respondents from six states in Australia, with 
55 identified as living in regional areas and 32 in major cities. Measures also 
included the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39) and self-reported Hoehn 
and Yahr scale for disease severity.
RESULTS: Time to obtain a diagnosis was significantly longer for regional 
respondents than major city counterparts. There were also significant 
differences in prioritising 10 statements relating to PD. In an overall analysis 
examining the impact of all the above variables on HRQoL as determined by the 
PDQ-39, only the Hoehn and Yahr scores explained significant variance; there was 
no significant difference between regional and metropolitan respondents after 
accounting for the other variables.
CONCLUSION: Individuals living in regional areas experienced longer delays in 
obtaining a diagnosis of PD. Both groups highly rated better access to 
neurologists and the need for better diagnosis as priorities. Location, disease 
duration and satisfaction with services were not significantly associated with 
HRQoL.

© 2025 The Author(s). Australian Journal of Rural Health published by John Wiley 
& Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of National Rural Health Alliance Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajr.70089
PMID: 40973986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Br J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1111/bph.70203. Online ahead of print.

Selatogrel: Potential to redefine timely anti-platelet intervention.

Zalzal RN(1), Salem PP(1), Dakroub AH(2), Eid AH(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute, and Marie-Josée and 
Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, Mount Sinai Heart, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, QU Health, Qatar 
University, Doha, Qatar.

Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) encompasses a number of heart diseases that cause 
a sudden decrease in coronary perfusion, precipitating cardiomyocyte necrosis or 
heightened risk thereof. This pathology is a major burden of cardiovascular 
disease. The etiopathogenesis and clinical manifestation of ACS are 
predominantly attributable to myocardial hypoperfusion consequent, to coronary 
vessel occlusion, typically resulting from atherosclerotic plaque rupture and 
subsequent thrombosis. Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT), comprising aspirin and 
a P2Y12 receptor antagonist, has long been the mainstay of ACS management. 
Notwithstanding, limitations in the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic 
(PD) profiles of conventional DAPT agents persist. Selatogrel (ACT-246475), a 
novel P2Y12 antagonist currently undergoing Phase III clinical trial, is poised 
to revolutionise ACS treatment. This highly selective and potent 
2-phenylpyrimidine-4-carboxamide analogue is administered subcutaneously. As 
such, it affords immediate intervention in ACS patients. Importantly, selatogrel 
has a remarkably rapid onset of action and a favourable safety profile. These 
advantages render selatogrel a promising candidate for pre-hospital, 
self-administered ACS treatment, potentially optimising the reduction of total 
ischaemic time. Having successfully completed several Phase I and Phase II 
trials, selatogrel is currently undergoing Phase III evaluation to further 
elucidate its safety and efficacy. Subsequent investigations will serve to 
support or refine its therapeutic attributes.

© 2025 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.70203
PMID: 40973982

1. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2025 Sep 19:izaf191. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izaf191. Online ahead
 of print.

Immunomodulators and Advanced Therapies for Induction of Remission in Crohn's 
Disease: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis.

Sinopoulou V(1), Gordon M(1), Liu S(1), Albuquerque DAN(1), Ajiboye A(1), 
Vuyyuru SK(2), Radford S(2), Moran G(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Previous reviews for Crohn's disease (CD) treatment have rarely 
considered advanced and immunomodulator medical therapies together. Our aim was 
to compare all therapies for efficacy and safety in induction of remission.
METHODS: We searched databases up to June 2025. Our outcomes were clinical 
remission and response, endoscopic remission, and safety outcomes. We performed 
network meta-analyses and estimated risk ratios (RR) and 95% CIs. We used GRADE 
to assess certainty of results, and surface under the cumulative ranking curve 
for ranking treatments.
RESULTS: A total of 79 RCTs with 20 724 participants were included. 
Interventions ranged from 2 to 30 weeks. There was moderate GRADE certainty of 
effectiveness over placebo for clinical remission for combination of adalimumab 
with thiopurines (RR, 2.87; 95% CI, 1.99-4.14; RD (Risk difference)  = 35.3%; 
NNT (Number needed to treat) = 3, large magnitude), guselkumab (RR, 2.5; 95% CI, 
1.95-3.21; RD = 28.4%; NNT = 4, moderate magnitude, adalimumab (RR, 2.46; 95% 
CI, 1.84-3.29; RD = 27.6% NNT = 4, moderate magnitude), combination of 
infliximab with thiopurines (RR, 2.43; 95% CI, 1.71-3.44; RD = 27%; NNT = 4, 
moderate magnitude), and ustekinumab (RR, 2.04; 95% CI, 1.69-2.46; RD = 19.6% 
NNT = 5, small magnitude). For endoscopic remission, there was moderate GRADE 
certainty of effectiveness for risankizumab (RR, 3.48; 95% CI, 2.18-5.58; 
RD = 17.4%, moderate magnitude). The certainty on safety varied, but treatments 
appear generally safe in the short term.
CONCLUSION: Combination of anti-tumor necrosis factors (anti-TNFs) and 
immunomodulators followed by anti-TNF monotherapy had large effect size with 
moderate certainty for the induction of clinical remission. More novel therapies 
appear to have similar effect sizes but with increased imprecision of the 
estimates.

Plain Language Summary: This network meta-analysis showed combination anti-TNFs 
and immunomodulators followed by anti-TNF monotherapy has large positive effect 
for the induction of clinical remission, with moderate certainty. More novel 
therapies appear to have similar effect sizes but with larger imprecision of the 
estimates.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izaf191
PMID: 40973970

1. BMC Gastroenterol. 2025 Sep 19;25(1):642. doi: 10.1186/s12876-025-04235-w.

Predictors of health-seeking behavior in patients with chronic liver disease and 
a comparison of health-seeking based on patient-type.

Jafree SR(1), Naveed A(2), Ahsan H(3), Burhan SK(4), Khawar A(5), Khan MA(6), 
Fischer F(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Forman Christian College University, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(2)Pakistan Kidney Liver Institute and Research Centre, Lahore, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Economics, Forman Christian College University, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(4)Department of Education, Forman Christian College University, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Psychology, Lahore College of Women University, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(6)Academic Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences, Kinnaird College for Women, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(7)Institute of Public Health, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany. florian.fischer1@charite.de.

BACKGROUND: Pakistan has one of the highest rates of chronic liver disease (CLD) 
burden in the world. Poor and underserved patients of CLD in the country may 
suffer from limited health-seeking behaviors, but there is not much research in 
this area. The aim of this study is to better plan support for CLD patients by 
identifying: (i) Health-seeking behaviors (HSB) according to patient-type; and 
(ii) the relationship of HSB with patient socio-demographic variables and 
independent study domains.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study. Data was collected over a 
four-month period from May 2022 to August 2022. A total of 850 patients visiting 
the Pakistan Kidney and Liver Institute and Research Centre were part of the 
study. We used correlation tests and multivariate logistic regression to 
investigate the relationship between the health-seeking behavior and the 
independent study domains (economic stability, health literacy, social support, 
experiencing grief, mental health, healthcare service quality, and coping 
strategies).
RESULTS: Main results suggest that patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 
non-viral liver disease, and cirrhosis have less HSB, compared to patient with 
chronic viral hepatitis. Multivariate logistic regression results reveal that 
the following groups have lower odds for health-seeking behavior: (i) illiterate 
people; (ii) those living in rented homes; (iii) those belonging to nuclear 
families; and (iv) those with low monthly household income. The following study 
domains also show lower odds for HSB: (i) health illiteracy; (ii) low health 
service quality; (iii) low ability to use coping strategies; (iv) grief; (v) 
lack of social support; (vi) mental health challenges; and (vii) economic 
instability.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights that the majority of CLD patients are poor, 
illiterate, or semi-literate and in urgent need of holistic care with respect to 
health literacy, mental health counseling, financial help, and improved support 
from provider and families. This is only possible through the integration of 
social policy officers and social workers in the tertiary health sector of the 
country.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-025-04235-w
PMID: 40973962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study has received ethics clearance from both the 
Institutional Review Boards of Forman Christian College University (Reference 
Number: FCCU-IRB-367/05-2022; Dated: 05/18/2022). and Pakistan Kidney and Liver 
Institute and Research Centre (Reference Number: PKLI-IRB/AP/68; Dated: 
13/04/2022). Respondents provided informed consent and data collectors assisted 
in recording data to facilitate illiterate or semi-literate participants. The 
research has been performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. BMC Cancer. 2025 Sep 18;25(Suppl 2):1418. doi: 10.1186/s12885-025-14787-5.

Highly-accurate prediction of colorectal cancer through low abundance 
uncultivated genomes recovered using metagenomic co-assembly and binning 
approach.

Lin PT(1)(2), Wu YW(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science 
and Technology, Taipei, 10607, Taiwan.
(2)Intelligent Manufacturing Innovation Center, National Taiwan University of 
Science and Technology, Taipei, 10607, Taiwan.
(3)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, 250, Wuxing St., Sinyi District, Taipei, 
11031, Taiwan. yuwei.wu@tmu.edu.tw.
(4)Clinical Big Data Research Center, Taipei Medical University Hospital, 
Taipei, 11031, Taiwan. yuwei.wu@tmu.edu.tw.
(5)TMU Research Center for Digestive Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, 11031, Taiwan. yuwei.wu@tmu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Recent microbiome studies have established the association between 
the composition of gut microbiota and various diseases. Since 16S ribosomal RNA 
sequencing may suffer from problems such as lower taxonomic resolution or 
limited sensitivity, more and more studies embraced whole-metagenome approach, 
which has the potential of sequencing everything in the target microbiome, to 
conduct microbial association analysis. However, species profiling, which is the 
most popular analysis technique for whole-metagenome analysis, cannot detect 
uncultivated species. Since uncultivated species may also be indispensable in 
the gut environments, it is crucial to identify those uncultivated species and 
evaluate their importance in discerning disease samples from healthy ones.
RESULTS: After conducting de novo co-assembly and genome binning procedures on 
two colorectal cancer (CRC) cohorts, in which one of them was from the Asian 
population while the other was from the Caucasian population, we identified that 
the Asian and Caucasian cohorts shared a significant amount of microbial species 
in their microbiota. In addition we found that low abundance genomes may be more 
important in classifying disease and healthy metagenomes. By sorting the genomes 
based on their random forest importance scores in differentiating disease and 
healthy samples and cumulatively evaluating the genome subsets in predicting CRC 
status, we identified dozens of "important" genomes for each of the cohorts that 
were able to predict CRC with very high accuracy (0.90 and 0.98 AUROC for the 
Asian and Caucasian cohorts respectively). Uncultivated species were also 
identified among the selected genomes, highlighting the importance of including 
the uncultivated species in order to build better disease prediction models and 
evaluate the roles of the uncultivated species in the disease formation or 
progression. Finally we found that the "important" species for both cohorts did 
not overlap with each other, hinting that the species highly associated with CRC 
disease may be different between the Eastern and Western populations.
CONCLUSION: In this study we demonstrated the importance of recovering and 
analyzing low abundance uncultivated species to identify their associations with 
colorectal cancer. We hope this work shed new light on a more comprehensive 
understanding of how our gut microbes are correlated with diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-025-14787-5
PMID: 40973961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.

1. J Cheminform. 2025 Sep 19;17(1):141. doi: 10.1186/s13321-025-01093-2.

A comprehensive landscape of AI applications in broad-spectrum drug interaction 
prediction: a systematic review.

Marzouk NH(1), Selim S(2), Elattar M(2), Mabrouk MS(1), Mysara M(3).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Group, Centre for Informatics Science (CIS), School of 
Information Technology and Computer Science (ITCS), Nile University, 12677, 
Giza, Egypt.
(2)Medical Imaging and Image Processing Group, Centre for Informatics Science 
(CIS), School of Information Technology and Computer Science (ITCS), Nile 
University, 12677, Giza, Egypt.
(3)Bioinformatics Group, Centre for Informatics Science (CIS), School of 
Information Technology and Computer Science (ITCS), Nile University, 12677, 
Giza, Egypt. mmaysara@nu.edu.eg.

In drug development, managing interactions such as drug-drug, drug-disease, and 
drug-nutrient is critical for ensuring the safety and efficacy of 
pharmacological treatments. These interactions often overlap, forming a complex, 
interconnected landscape that necessitates accurate prediction to improve 
patient outcomes and support evidence-based care. Recent advances in artificial 
intelligence (AI), powered by large-scale datasets (e.g., DrugBank, TWOSIDES, 
SIDER), have significantly enhanced interaction prediction. Machine learning, 
deep learning, and graph-based models show great promise, but challenges 
persist, including data imbalance, noisy sources, Limited explainability, and 
underrepresentation of certain types of interactions. This systematic review of 
147 studies (2018-2024) is the first to comprehensively map AI applications 
across major interaction types. We present a detailed taxonomy of models and 
datasets, emphasizing the growing roles of large language models and knowledge 
graphs in overcoming key limitations. Their integration-alongside explainable AI 
tools-enhances transparency, paving the way for AI-driven systems that 
proactively mitigate adverse interactions. By identifying the most promising 
approaches and critical research gaps, this review lays the groundwork for 
advancing more robust, interpretable, and personalized models for drug 
interaction prediction.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13321-025-01093-2
PMID: 40973960

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Data and materials: All data used during this study are 
included in this published article (and its supplementary information files).

1. BMC Pharmacol Toxicol. 2025 Sep 19;26(1):156. doi: 10.1186/s40360-025-00986-0.

Obeticholic acid prevents cyclophosphamide-induced placental injury via SIRT1 
and TLR4/NF-κB pathways.

Abdelzaher WY(1)(2), Khalaf HM(3), Ahmed SM(3), Attya ME(4), Mohamed AA(5), Ali 
AMM(6), Gaber SS(7), Abdel-Hakeem AKA(8), Mohammed EM(8), Hassan M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Minia, 61519, Egypt. walaa.hamada@mu.edu.eg.
(2)Faculty of Nursing, Lotus University, 61768, Minia, Egypt. 
walaa.hamada@mu.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Medical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Minia, 61519, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 61519, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Minia, 61519, Egypt.
(6)Department of Forensic Medicine and Clinical Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Minia University, Minia, 61519, Egypt.
(7)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Minia, 61519, Egypt.
(8)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Minia, 61519, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the current study is to identify the possible protective 
effect of obeticholic acid (OCA) on placental injury caused by cyclophosphamide 
(CP). OCA was administered in the presence and absence of CP.
METHODS: Thirty-two pregnant female rats were randomly assigned to four groups: 
control group, OCA group: received OCA (10 mg/kg /day, orally), CP group: 
received CP 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally at 12th day, OCA + CP group. Placental 
weight and placental growth factor (PlGF) were measured. Placental oxidative 
stress parameters (malondialdahide (MDA) and total antioxidant capacity (TAC)), 
besides Sirtuin type 1 (SIRT1), nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 
(Nrf2), myeloid differentiation factor 88 (Myd88) and caspase-3 biomarkers, were 
evaluated. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
(TNF-α) gene expression were also measured. Placental histopathological 
examination, toll- like receptor4 (TLR4) and forkhead-box transcription factor1 
(FOXO1) immunohistochemical study were performed.
RESULTS: CP significantly decreased PlGF, placental weight, TAC, SIRT1 and Nrf2 
with increased placental MDA, Myd88, caspase-3, NF-κB and TNF-α. 
Histopathological findings of placental damage and high TLR4, FOXO1 
immunoexpressions were detected. OCA significantly increased PlGF level, 
placental weight and normalized the distributed oxidative stress, inflammatory, 
and apoptotic biomarkers with a prompt improvement in the histopathological 
picture and decrease TLR4 and FOXO1 immunoexpressions.
CONCLUSION: Accordingly, these findings suggest that OCA protects CP-induced 
placental injury by modulating TLR4/Myd88/NF-κB; SIRT1-dependant signaling 
pathways.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40360-025-00986-0
PMID: 40973956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: The animal study 
was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Ethical Committee, Medicine 
Faculty, Minia university, Egypt according to the NIH Guide for taking care and 
use of laboratory animals (Approval No: 1342/11/2024). Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Lipids Health Dis. 2025 Sep 19;24(1):282. doi: 10.1186/s12944-025-02728-x.

Liver fat mediates hippocampal-orbitofrontal reward circuit disruption and 
cognitive-emotional impairments in MASLD.

Wu L(#)(1)(2), Tang R(#)(1), Liang Y(1)(2), Jin Y(1)(2), Xu K(3), Chen X(1)(2), 
Shi J(1)(4), Li J(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, 310015, China.
(2)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou, 310015, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, Zhejiang Hospital, Hangzhou, 310015, China.
(4)Institute of Hepatology and Metabolic Diseases, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310015, China.
(5)School of Clinical Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, 310015, China. 
jie_sweethz@163.com.
(6)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou, 310015, China. jie_sweethz@163.com.
(7)Zhejiang Key Laboratory for Research in Assessment of Cognitive Impairments, 
Hangzhou, 310015, China. jie_sweethz@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: As a major chronic liver condition, metabolic dysfunction-associated 
steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is linked to numerous extrahepatic 
manifestations, including cognitive and emotional dysfunction. However, its 
neuroanatomical and functional brain correlates remain unclear. This study 
investigates cerebral alterations in MASLD by examining structural differences 
via voxel-based morphometry (VBM), along with functional features using 
resting-state functional connectivity (FC).
METHODS AND PATIENTS: Seventy-four MASLD patients and sixty-two demographically 
matched healthy controls (HC) underwent structural MRI and resting-state fMRI. 
Group differences in gray matter volume (GMV) and FC were analyzed using VBM and 
seed-based FC methods. Correlations and mediation analyses were further used to 
assess the relationships among abnormal GMV, altered resting-state FC and 
clinical indicators in MASLD individuals.
RESULTS: Patients with MASLD exhibited reduced GMV in the bilateral hippocampus, 
left parahippocampal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus, right fusiform gyrus, 
right supplementary motor area (SMA), and right cerebellum. Importantly, liver 
fat content fully mediated the effects of hippocampal atrophy on 
cognitive-emotional symptoms. Seed-based FC analysis further revealed decreased 
connectivity between the right hippocampus and the right orbitofrontal cortex. 
This reduction in connectivity was also associated with worse cognitive function 
and a higher waist-to-hip ratio.
CONCLUSION: MASLD-related brain atrophy and functional disruption are linked to 
visceral adiposity and neuropsychiatric deficits. The mediating role of liver 
fat highlights the importance of dual-pathway interventions that target both 
metabolic health and neural protection, potentially reducing long-term 
neurocognitive disability burdens and enabling accessible risk stratification in 
practice.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12944-025-02728-x
PMID: 40973949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. Vet Res. 2025 Sep 19;56(1):175. doi: 10.1186/s13567-025-01578-w.

Copper-mediated MAM regulation of the NF-κB signalling pathway enhances Seneca 
Valley virus replication in PK-15 cells.

Wu X(1), Zhu S(1), Li M(1), Xu Z(1), Zhu L(1), Deng J(2)(3), Deng H(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, Wenjiang, 
Chengdu, 611130, China.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, Wenjiang, 
Chengdu, 611130, China. dengjl213@126.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Animal Diseases and Environmental Hazards of Sichuan 
Province, College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Wenjiang, Chengdu, 611130, China. dengjl213@126.com.
(4)College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, Wenjiang, 
Chengdu, 611130, China. denghuidan@sicau.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Animal Diseases and Environmental Hazards of Sichuan 
Province, College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Wenjiang, Chengdu, 611130, China. denghuidan@sicau.edu.cn.

Seneca Valley virus (SVV) is known to cause vesicular disease in swine, 
presenting new challenges to the pig industry. Recent studies have investigated 
the relationship between disrupted copper ion homeostasis and viral replication, 
suggesting that copper dysregulation has a significant impact on the replication 
of various viruses. Research has also shown that mitochondria-associated 
endoplasmic reticulum membrane (MAM) and NF-κB are involved in the innate immune 
response triggered by viral infections. However, the exact mechanisms by which 
copper (Cu), MAM, and NF-κB affect SVV replication remain unclear. In this 
study, it was found that SVV induces an imbalance in copper homeostasis, leading 
to dynamic changes in MAM while inhibiting the NF-κB pathway. This inhibition 
results in decreased levels of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, IFN-α, and IFNλ3. 
Furthermore, the disruption of copper homeostasis in SVV-infected PK-15 cells 
regulates the NF-κB pathway through MAM, promoting SVV replication. This 
research provides valuable insights into the regulation of copper metabolism 
during SVV infection and establishes a theoretical framework for understanding 
the pathogenesis and immune activation mechanisms associated with SVV.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13567-025-01578-w
PMID: 40973945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.

1. BMC Gastroenterol. 2025 Sep 19;25(1):641. doi: 10.1186/s12876-025-04264-5.

Global burden of cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases caused by specific 
etiologies from 1990 to 2021.

Zhang Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Luo M(#)(4), Ming Y(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Center, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, 410013, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Transplantation Medicine of 
National Health Commission, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, 410013, China.
(3)Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases in Hunan Province, Changsha, 
Hunan, 410013, China.
(4)Transplantation Center of Wuhan University, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, 430000, China.
(5)Transplantation Center, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, 410013, China. myz_china@aliyun.com.
(6)Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Transplantation Medicine of 
National Health Commission, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, 410013, China. myz_china@aliyun.com.
(7)Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases in Hunan Province, Changsha, 
Hunan, 410013, China. myz_china@aliyun.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The global burden of cirrhosis and chronic liver diseases has 
remained substantial and continues to evolve in response to shifting etiological 
patterns. While viral hepatitis and alcohol use have historically dominated, 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is emerging as a major contributor 
worldwide. A comprehensive understanding of these trends across regions and 
sociodemographic levels is essential for targeted public health interventions.
METHODS: We analyzed data on cirrhosis and chronic liver diseases from 1990 to 
2021 using estimates from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study. 
Age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR), prevalence rate (ASPR), mortality rate 
(ASMR), and disability-adjusted life years rate (ASDR) were assessed globally 
and across sociodemographic index (SDI) levels. Estimated annual percentage 
change (EAPC) was calculated to quantify temporal trends.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2021, NAFLD-related cirrhosis was the only etiology with a 
significantly increasing ASIR (EAPC = 0.73; 95% CI: 0.69-0.77), while viral and 
alcohol-related cirrhosis showed stable or declining trends. In 2021, NAFLD 
became the leading global cause of incident cirrhosis. Although high-SDI 
countries demonstrated effective control of HBV and HCV-related mortality, NAFLD 
remains a major and growing challenge. The ASMR of NAFLD-related cirrhosis 
showed a fluctuating pattern overall but increased notably in several low- to 
middle-SDI countries, particularly in Eastern Europe (e.g., EAPC in ASMR = 3.8). 
HCV-related ASIRs were concentrated in Central Asia, especially in Mongolia, 
Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. HBV-related ASMR declined rapidly in countries 
with SDI below 0.65, then plateaued.
CONCLUSIONS: Cirrhosis and chronic liver diseases remain a major global health 
challenge. NAFLD has emerged as the predominant cause of incident cirrhosis, 
affecting both high-income and lower-SDI countries, signaling a critical shift 
toward metabolic etiologies. These findings call for urgent, region-specific 
strategies that integrate prevention, early detection, and management of both 
infectious and metabolic liver disease risk factors.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-025-04264-5
PMID: 40973942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Nat Commun. 2025 Sep 19;16(1):8272. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-62126-w.

Genetic architecture of plasma metabolome in 254,825 individuals.

Qiang YX(#)(1), Wang YX(#)(1), He XY(#)(1), Deng YT(#)(1), Ge YJ(#)(1), Wu 
BS(1), Jia Y(1)(2)(3), Feng JF(2)(3)(4), Cheng W(5)(6)(7), Yu JT(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Fudan University, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(5)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China. wcheng@fudan.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China. wcheng@fudan.edu.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Fudan University, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China. wcheng@fudan.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China. jintai_yu@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Circulating metabolites are crucial to biological processes underlying health 
and diseases, yet their genetic determinants remain incompletely understood. 
Here, we investigate the genetic architecture of nuclear magnetic 
resonance-based metabolomics, analyzing 249 metabolic measures and 64 
biologically plausible ratios in 254,825 participants. We conduct a genome-wide 
association study (GWAS) identifying 24,438 independent variant-metabolite 
associations across 427 loci, with effect sizes highly concordant with 19 
previous studies. Fine-mapping pinpoints 3610 putative causal associations, 785 
of which are novel. Additionally, we utilize whole exome sequencing data and 
uncover 2948 gene-metabolite associations through aggregate testing, 
underscoring the importance of rare coding variants overlooked in GWAS. 
Integrating our findings with disease genetics reveals potential causal 
associations, such as between acetate levels and the risk of atrial fibrillation 
and flutter. Collectively, this study delineates the complex genetic 
architecture of the plasma metabolome, offering a valuable resource for future 
investigations into disease mechanisms and therapeutic strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-62126-w
PMID: 40973927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.

1. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2025 Sep 11;14(9):szaf041. doi: 10.1093/stcltm/szaf041.

Metabolic regulation in the senescence process of stem cells.

Wei Y(1)(2), Zhang B(1)(2)(3), Bie Q(1)(2)(3), He B(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cell and Biomedical Technology of Shandong Province, 
Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University, Jining Medical University, 
Jining, Shandong 272000, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical 
University, Jining Medical University, Jining, Shandong 272000, China.
(3)Shandong Medicine and Health Key Laboratory of Molecular Diagnostics & 
Precision Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University, Jining 
Medical University, Jining, Shandong 272000, China.

BACKGROUND: Aging is an inevitable and complex biological process characterized 
by progressive cellular and functional deterioration, leading to increased 
disease susceptibility and mortality. Stem cells, endowed with unique 
self-renewal and multipotent differentiation capabilities, play a pivotal role 
in tissue homeostasis and regenerative processes. However, the aging process 
triggers stem cell senescence, manifested by diminished proliferative capacity 
and differentiation potential, ultimately compromising tissue regeneration and 
contributing to the pathogenesis of various age-related disorders, including 
neurodegeneration, cardiovascular diseases, and metabolic syndromes.
MAIN FINDINGS: Metabolic plasticity serves as a fundamental mechanism enabling 
stem cells to dynamically adapt their energy requirements during self-renewal 
and lineage commitment. Emerging evidence indicates that cellular metabolism 
extends beyond its conventional role in energy production, actively 
participating in the regulation of stem cell fate decisions. Notably, 
nutrient-sensitive metabolites constitute a sophisticated metabolism-epigenetic 
axis that integrates metabolic flux, signaling pathways, and epigenetic 
modifications to precisely orchestrate cellular behavior. This regulatory axis 
is indispensable for maintaining tissue homeostasis and facilitating 
regeneration, thereby positioning metabolic reprogramming as a promising 
therapeutic strategy for mitigating aging-associated decline.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, elucidating the intricate crosstalk between stem 
cell metabolism and the aging process unveils novel opportunities for developing 
innovative anti-aging interventions and enhancing tissue repair. Future 
investigations should focus on the precise manipulation of metabolic pathways to 
effectively counteract age-related functional deterioration and promote 
longevity.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/stcltm/szaf041
PMID: 40973919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2025 Sep 11;14(9):szaf035. doi: 10.1093/stcltm/szaf035.

Rapid manufacturing of angiogenic cellular collagen patches for ischemic 
cardiomyopathy.

Pfrender E(1)(2), Kim S(3), Farag JA(1)(2)(4), Yajima S(1)(2), Kawai Y(1)(2), 
Kawago K(1)(2), Syed U(1)(2), Ikeda G(2)(5), Ueyama T(5), Takashima H(5), Dalal 
A(1)(2), Zhu Y(1)(2), Ichimura K(2)(6), Liu Y(2)(5), Moeinzadeh S(3), Koltsov 
J(3), Wu JC(2)(5)(7), Woo YJ(1)(2)(8), Yang PC(2)(5), Yang YP(3)(8)(9), Shudo 
Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(2)Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(4)Department of Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, United States.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care 
Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, United 
States.
(7)Institute of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(8)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305, United States.
(9)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, United States.

BACKGROUND: One in ten Americans carry a lifetime risk of ischemic heart 
failure, the most severe form of ischemic heart disease. Carrying a nearly 50% 
five‑year mortality rate, no interventional therapy exists to treat the 
underlying cause, microvascular malperfusion. In efforts to combat microvascular 
malperfusion, our group has utilized synergistic application of endothelial 
progenitor cells (EPCs) and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) to induce angiogenesis in 
ischemic myocardium.
METHODS: Cells are then embedded into a rapidly manufacturable compressed 
collagen (CC) patch to provide a biosimilar scaffold ready for transplantation. 
The performance of the cellular compressed collagen patch was then tested on a 
rodent acute myocardial infarction model of ischemic heart failure.
RESULTS: By post‑transplantation Day 28, the cellular CC patch improved left 
ventricular ejection fraction when compared to an acellular CC patch and control 
(cellular: 49.1 ± 1.8%; acellular: 38.0 ± 2.6%; control: 39.2 ± 2.1%; ANOVA 
P = .0006). Cellular CC patch transplantation also induced mature angiogenesis 
as shown by arteriolar density (cellular: 1084 ± 98 αSMA+vWF+/mm2; acellular: 
338 ± 57 αSMA+vWF+/mm2; control: 449 ± 39 αSMA+vWF+/mm2; ANOVA P = .0003) and 
vascular maturation index (cellular: 0.67 ± 0.04; acellular: 0.48 ± 0.02; and 
control: 0.46 ± 0.04, P = .001).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, transplantation of a rapidly manufacturable 
EPC‑SMC‑based compressed collagen patch effectively rescues myocardial function 
by enhancing neovascularization and attenuating post‑infarction myocardial 
injury.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/stcltm/szaf035
PMID: 40973918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. J Med Ultrason (2001). 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1007/s10396-025-01573-w. Online 
ahead of print.

Ultrasound findings suggestive of microscopic extranodal extension in papillary 
thyroid carcinoma.

Miyamoto N(1), Hirokawa M(2), Higuchi M(2), Oshita M(3), Kawakami M(4), Yamaoka 
H(5), Fujishima M(6), Miyauchi A(6), Akamizu T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-Dori, 
Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan. miyamoto01@kuma-h.or.jp.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 
Shimoyamate-Dori, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-Dori, 
Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan.
(4)Medical Information Management Section, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 
Shimoyamate-Dori, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-Dori, 
Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan.
(6)Department of Surgery, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-Dori, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, 
Hyogo, 650-0011, Japan.

PURPOSE: Extranodal extension (ENE) of metastatic carcinoma in patients with 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) has been associated with an increased risk of 
recurrent disease, persistent disease, and disease-specific mortality; however, 
ultrasound findings suggestive of ENE have not been well established. In this 
study, we aimed to identify ultrasound findings suggestive of microscopic ENE 
and validate them histologically.
METHODS: We retrospectively examined the ultrasound and histological findings of 
21 PTC patients with microscopic ENE and 46 without ENE.
RESULTS: Node matting, irregular shapes, ill-defined jagged border, and 
perinodal hyperechoic rims were observed in 40.0%, 57.1%, 42.9%, and 57.1% of 
lymph nodes with ENE, respectively, and the frequencies were significantly 
higher than those without ENE, with p values less than 0.05, 0.0005, 0.0001, and 
0.0001, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of cases with any one of 
irregular shapes, ill-defined jagged border, and perinodal hyperechoic rims were 
81.0% and 82.6%, respectively. Histologically, node matting, irregular shape, 
ill-defined jagged border, and a perinodal hyperechoic rim correspond to 
adhesion between lymph nodes, extensive invasion, minimal invasion, and invasion 
into adipose tissue, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We would argue that any irregular shape, ill-defined jagged border, 
and perinodal hyperechoic rim can be accepted as findings indicative of 
microscopic ENE.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10396-025-01573-w
PMID: 40973915

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest. Ethical approval: The study protocol was 
reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board of Kuma Hospital 
(20231012–4) and was conducted in accordance with the 1964 Helsinki Declaration 
and its amendments or comparable ethical standards.

1. J Imaging Inform Med. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s10278-025-01676-3. Online
ahead  of print.

OcuViT: A Vision Transformer-Based Approach for Automated Diabetic Retinopathy 
and AMD Classification.

Ahmed F(1), Uddin MDJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Data Science and Mathematics, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical 
University, 3700 Willow Creek Rd, Prescott, 86301, AZ, USA. ahmedf9@erau.edu.
(2)Department of Mathematical Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, 800 W 
Campbell Rd, Richardson, 75080, TX, USA.

Early detection and accurate classification of retinal diseases, such as 
diabetic retinopathy (DR) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), are 
essential to preventing vision loss and improving patient outcomes. Traditional 
methods for analyzing retinal fundus images are often manual, prolonged, and 
rely on the expertise of the clinician, leading to delays in diagnosis and 
treatment. Recent advances in machine learning, particularly deep learning, have 
introduced automated systems to assist in retinal disease detection; however, 
challenges such as computational inefficiency and robustness still remain. This 
paper proposes a novel approach that utilizes vision transformers (ViT) through 
transfer learning to address challenges in ophthalmic diagnostics. Using a 
pre-trained ViT-Base-Patch16-224 model, we fine-tune it for diabetic retinopathy 
(DR) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) classification tasks. To adapt 
the model for retinal fundus images, we implement a streamlined preprocessing 
pipeline that converts the images into PyTorch tensors and standardizes them, 
ensuring compatibility with the ViT architecture and improving model 
performance. We validated our model, OcuViT, on two datasets. We used the APTOS 
dataset to perform binary and five-level severity classification and the 
IChallenge-AMD dataset for grading age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In 
the five-class DR and AMD grading tasks, OcuViT outperforms all existing CNN- 
and ViT-based methods across multiple metrics, achieving superior accuracy and 
robustness. For the binary DR task, it delivers highly competitive performance. 
These results demonstrate that OcuViT effectively leverages ViT-based transfer 
learning with an efficient preprocessing pipeline, significantly improving the 
precision and reliability of automated ophthalmic diagnosis.

© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Society for Imaging Informatics 
in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s10278-025-01676-3
PMID: 40973913

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. This study did not involve human participants or 
animals, and publicly available datasets were used. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Surg Endosc. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s00464-025-12245-8. Online ahead of 
print.

A novel prognostic system for locally advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
after neoadjuvant imatinib therapy based on the metro-ticket paradigm: a 
retrospective dual-center study.

Cai Z(#)(1)(2), Chen J(#)(1)(3), Su X(#)(2), Lin L(2), Yang Z(2), Lin T(2), Song 
W(2), Chen X(2), Zhou Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350004, China.
(2)Department of Gastric Surgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, China.
(3)Department of Gastric Surgery, Fujian Cancer Hospital & Clinical Oncology 
School of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(4)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350004, China. yongjianzhou76@163.com.
(5)Department of Gastric Surgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, China. yongjianzhou76@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Accurately assessing the mitotic index after neoadjuvant therapy 
remains challenging, which limits the prognostic utility of the NIH criteria. 
The tumor regression grade (TRG), which evaluates therapeutic efficacy on the 
basis of tumor necrosis, can increase the prognostic capacity when integrated 
with ypT staging in patients receiving preoperative imatinib therapy. The aim of 
this study was to develop a staging system incorporating TRG and ypT staging to 
assess patient outcomes and guide surgical strategies and postoperative adjuvant 
therapy in patients with locally advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
(LA-GIST) treated with preoperative imatinib.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on 200 patients with LA-GIST who 
received preoperative imatinib therapy at two high-volume centers. The ypT-TRG 
staging system was constructed by computing the Euclidean distance of each TRG 
(x-axis) and ypT stage (y-axis) coordinate from the origin in a Cartesian plane.
RESULTS: Compared with the NIH criteria, the ypT-TRG staging system provided a 
more balanced distribution of patients, with 61% (n = 122) experiencing risk 
reclassification. The ypT-TRG system demonstrated superior discriminatory 
ability (concordance index), model fit (Akaike information criterion, Bayesian 
information criterion), risk reclassification improvement (net reclassification 
improvement, integrated discrimination improvement), dynamic predictive 
performance (time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve), and 
clinical utility (decision curve analysis). Furthermore, multivariate Cox 
regression analysis confirmed that ypT-TRG stage could replace the NIH criteria 
as an independent prognostic factor. Notably, patients classified as ypT-TRG 
stages I-II had a significantly higher rate of minimally invasive surgery (83.9% 
vs. 45.1%, P < 0.001). In addition, patients with stages III-IV disease achieved 
significant survival benefits from prolonged postoperative imatinib therapy.
CONCLUSION: Compared with the NIH criteria, the ypT-TRG staging system provides 
superior prognostic stratification for patients with LA-GIST. This system offers 
valuable insights for selecting candidates for minimally invasive surgery and 
facilitates the optimization of postoperative imatinib treatment strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-025-12245-8
PMID: 40973902

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interests: Zhiming 
Cai, Jinhu Chen, Xincheng Su, Lv Lin, Zhenrong Yang, Tao Lin, Weibin Song, Xinyu 
Chen, and Yongjian Zhou have no conflicts of interest or financial ties to 
disclose. Ethical approval: This study was approved by the Fujian Medical 
University Union Hospital and Fujian Cancer Hospital Ethics Committees. Given 
its retrospective design, informed consent was waived. This study complied with 
the standards of the Declaration of Helsinki and current ethical guidelines.

1. Drug Deliv Transl Res. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s13346-025-01975-w. Online 
ahead of print.

Bioavailability enhancement and neuropharmacological effects of Dauricine under 
intranasal administration to improve cognitive impairment via PI3K/AKT/mTOR 
pathway.

Xie R(#)(1), Liu Z(#)(2), Zheng J(#)(1), Tan Q(1), Wu H(1), Liang Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou, 510405, China.
(2)Department of Chemistry & the MOE Key Laboratory of Spectrochemical Analysis 
and Instrumentation, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, 361005, China.
(3)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou, 510405, China. liangyong@gzucm.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Chemistry & the MOE Key Laboratory of Spectrochemical Analysis 
and Instrumentation, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, 361005, China. liangyong@gzucm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder strongly associated 
with aging, and Dauricine (DAU) has demonstrated significant 
neuropharmacological properties for AD treatment. However, its bioavailability 
is significantly limited when administered orally, leaving the mechanisms 
underlying its effects on AD largely unexplored. In this study, a DAU-loaded 
thermosensitive gel was formulated for delivery via the nasal-nerve route, and 
its potential to enhance the bioavailability of DAU in rat plasma and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was assessed through a pharmacokinetic study. The 
anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) mechanism of DAU was investigated using network 
pharmacology approaches, molecular docking, and dynamics simulations, 
complemented by in vivo experimental validation. DAU can be effectively 
incorporated into a thermosensitive gel and administered to the brain within 
30 min via intranasal delivery. Following nasal administration, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters of DAU in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma were 
significantly elevated compared to oral administration (**P < 0.01), indicating 
a substantial improvement in bioavailability at equivalent doses. Behavioral 
studies demonstrated that DAU (dose of 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg in gel) enhanced 
cognitive function in intracerebroventricular-streptozotocin (ICV-STZ) rats and 
decelerated aging processes by reversing oxidative stress and mitigating 
neuronal apoptosis. Additionally, DAU contributed to lowering blood glucose 
levels, increasing insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) content, and reducing 
insulin resistance. Network pharmacological analysis, molecular docking, 
molecular dynamics simulations, and in vivo experiments collectively suggested 
that DAU exerted significant therapeutic effects on Alzheimer's disease by 
inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Our study demonstrates a significant 
enhancement in the bioavailability of DAU in the brain via nasal-nerve delivery 
route and also this research is the first to report that DAU ameliorates 
cognitive impairment in ICV-STZ rats through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Our 
findings contribute to the scientific understanding of DAU's potential in 
Alzheimer's disease treatment and offer a novel experimental foundation for the 
development of anti-Alzheimer's drugs.

© 2025. Controlled Release Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13346-025-01975-w
PMID: 40973891

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The animal 
experimental procedures authorized by the ethics committee of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine (ethical number: 20230602014, approved at 2nd, 
June, 2023). Consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: 
All authors have read this manuscript and approved for publication. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.

1. Neurosci Bull. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s12264-025-01505-1. Online ahead of 
print.

Role of Microglial Dysfunction in Parkinson's Disease: From Multifactorial 
Causes to Neurodegeneration.

Xu Y(#)(1), Han T(#)(1), Wu Y(#)(2), Liu H(1), Hou K(1), An Z(1), Li Y(3), Zhu 
C(1), Wang S(4), Wei J(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Brain Sciences Research, Center for Translational 
Neuromedicine, School of Life Sciences, Huaihe Hospital of Henan University, 
Henan University, Kaifeng, 475004, China.
(2)Hubei Superior Discipline Group of Exercise and Brain Science from Hubei 
Provincial, Wuhan Sports University, Wuhan, 430079, China.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Beijing Jishuitan Hospital Guizhou 
Hospital, Guiyang, 550014, China.
(4)Hubei Superior Discipline Group of Exercise and Brain Science from Hubei 
Provincial, Wuhan Sports University, Wuhan, 430079, China. wangsong@whsu.edu.cn.
(5)Institute for Brain Sciences Research, Center for Translational 
Neuromedicine, School of Life Sciences, Huaihe Hospital of Henan University, 
Henan University, Kaifeng, 475004, China. jswei@henu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
loss of dopaminergic neurons, and its prevalence is increasing, alongside global 
population aging. Neuroinflammation has been widely recognized as a pivotal 
contributor to PD pathogenesis, particularly owing to the dual role of microglia 
in this process. This review systematically identifies the multiple factors 
regulating microglial function and phenotype, thereby driving PD initiation and 
progression. Furthermore, aging, a major risk factor for PD, and its profound 
effects on microglial state and functional dynamics are discussed. Notably, 
microglial hyperactivation is shown to establish a self-perpetuating cycle of 
"inflammation-damage-reinflammation" through the excessive release of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, which exacerbates neuronal 
degeneration. Lastly, the potential therapeutic strategies targeting microglial 
dysfunction, including interventions against the senescence-associated secretory 
phenotype and the modulation of microglial activity, are summarized. By 
elucidating how multifactorial alterations in microglial states influence PD 
pathology, this review provides novel insights and directions for advancing 
therapeutic research in PD.

© 2025. Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-025-01505-1
PMID: 40973880

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.

1. Clin Transl Oncol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s12094-025-04058-x. Online ahead
of  print.

Unraveling the role of specificity protein 1 in gliomas: pathophysiology and 
clinical implications.

Naseri A(1)(2), Razi S(1)(3), Rezaei N(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Immunology Project (CIP), Universal Scientific Education and Research 
Network (USERN), Tehran, Iran.
(2)Shiraz Institute for Cancer Research, School of Medicine, Shiraz University 
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Children's Medical Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Dr Qarib St, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, 14194, 
Iran.
(4)Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Children's Medical Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Dr Qarib St, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, 14194, 
Iran. rezaei_nima@tums.ac.ir.
(5)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. rezaei_nima@tums.ac.ir.
(6)Cancer Immunology Project (CIP), Universal Scientific Education and Research 
Network (USERN), Stockholm, Sweden. rezaei_nima@tums.ac.ir.

Gliomas present a significant challenge to modern medicine as some of the most 
diverse and malignant brain tumors. Despite considerable developments in 
curative measures, the prognosis remains unsatisfactory. A prime reason is that 
much is obscured about the genetic regulation of glioma pathogenesis. In recent 
years, specificity protein 1 (Sp1) has been recognized as a central 
transcription factor that promotes gliomagenesis. Sp1, which is overexpressed in 
glioma tissues, modulates gene transcription by targeting GC boxes through its 
zinc finger motifs. As a result, it can influence tumor formation, 
proliferation, invasion, and distant migration. The present review summarizes 
the structure, function, and regulation of Sp1. Furthermore, this study 
elucidates the underlying mechanism by which Sp1 interacts with signaling 
pathways to fuel tumor growth and chemoresistance. Finally, the current state of 
Sp1's clinical implications is outlined. These findings reveal the potential 
benefits of Sp1 as a therapeutic target and diagnostic tool, laying the 
foundation for future studies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades 
Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-025-04058-x
PMID: 40973878

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this 
article. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Ethical approval and consent 
to participate: Not applicable.

1. Clin Rheumatol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s10067-025-07703-6. Online ahead of 
print.

PPARG-centered regulatory network of ferroptosis in lupus nephritis: insights by 
integrated comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and machine learning.

Li X(#)(1), Zhu Q(#)(1), Huang J(2), Zhao K(1), Zhao T(3).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Chinese Medical University School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Hangzhou, 310053, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang, Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, 310053, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Chinese medicine rheumatology of Zhejiang Province, 
Research Institute of Chinese Medical Clinical Foundation and Immunology, 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University School of Basic Medical Sciences, No. 548, 
Binwen Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou City, 310053, Zhejiang Province, China. 
zhaoting@zcmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Ferroptosis has garnered attention as a mechanism of cell death 
contributing to lupus and lupus nephritis pathogenesis. However, the precise 
locations of occurrence, mechanisms triggering disease progression, and critical 
targets remain unclear.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Differentially expressed genes were identified using the 
"limma" package in R. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis was applied 
to explore gene modules associated with LN. Ferroptosis-related genes were 
obtained from FerrDb V2 and intersected with DEGs and WGCNA modules to identify 
candidate genes. Hub genes were selected using LASSO and Random Forest 
algorithms, followed by ROC curve validation. Immune cell infiltration was 
analyzed using the CIBERSORT algorithm, and correlations with hub gene 
expression were assessed. A protein-protein interaction network was constructed 
via STRING. Finally, RT-qPCR was performed to validate the expression of 
selected genes in kidney tissues from MRL/lpr and C57BL/6 mice.
RESULTS: Differential expression gene analysis and weighted gene co-expression 
network analysis identified 688 LN-related genes in PBMC, 625 in the renal 
tubulointerstitium, and 1428 in renal glomeruli. The LASSO and Random Forest 
algorithms selected hub genes associated with ferroptosis and were validated 
through ROC analysis. Immunocyte infiltration analysis revealed differential 
patterns in different tissues, with most hub genes highly correlated with immune 
cell infiltrations. PPI analysis and RT-qPCR validation identified a 
PPARG-centered regulatory network (including PPARG, CDKN1A, NR4A1, ATF3, DUSP1 
and PDK4) that may be crucial for the regulation of ferroptosis in lupus 
nephritis.
CONCLUSION: This study reveals, for the first time, the mechanisms and 
regulatory hub genes of ferroptosis in different LN tissues. The regulatory 
network centered around PPARG may play a crucial role in ferroptosis in LN, 
providing a new perspective for in-depth investigation into LN pathogenesis and 
targeted therapy development. Key Points • Identified tissue-specific 
ferroptosis biomarkers in lupus nephritis using multiple machine learning 
methods. • The diagnostic efficacy of the PPARG regulatory network was validated 
through both internal and external validation. • Discovered the regulatory 
network of ferroptosis in lupus nephritis by constructing the PPARG regulatory 
network.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of 
Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-025-07703-6
PMID: 40973872

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study utilized publicly available de-identified transcriptomic 
data from the GEO database. According to the National Institutes of Health 
regulations governing research involving publicly available datasets, this 
analysis was exempt from institutional ethics review as it did not involve 
direct human subject interaction, collection of new biological specimens, or 
access to identifiable private information. This study adheres to the ARRIVE 
guidelines for transparent and reproducible biomedical research. All 
experimental and analytical procedures involving public data reuse were 
conducted in accordance with the guideline's core principles. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interest: The authors declare that they 
have no conflicts of interest.

1. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s12011-025-04797-6. Online
ahead  of print.

Cadmium and Benzo[a]pyrene Co-exposure Synergistically Induces Apoptosis in 
Bronchial Epithelium: Mechanistic Insights and Predictive Risk Modeling for 
Indoor Dust.

Liu J(#)(1), Yang L(#)(1), Chen J(1), Man YB(2), Wong MH(3), Cheng Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Sciences, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, 
611130, China.
(2)Consortium On Health, Environment, Education, and Research (CHEER), 
Department of Science and Environmental Studies, The Education University of 
Hong Kong, Tai Po, Hong Kong, China. ybman@eduhk.hk.
(3)Consortium On Health, Environment, Education, and Research (CHEER), 
Department of Science and Environmental Studies, The Education University of 
Hong Kong, Tai Po, Hong Kong, China.
(4)School of Environmental Sciences, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, 
611130, China. cz@sicau.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Cadmium (Cd) and benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) are widely present in indoor dust. 
However, research on their combined health impacts on humans remains 
insufficient. To this end, this study employs human bronchial epithelial cells 
(16HBE) as an exposure model to elucidate the combined toxic effects of Cd and 
BaP in indoor dust. Cellular studies have demonstrated that Cd and BaP in dust 
exhibit synergistic toxicity in inducing apoptosis. Compared to the control 
group, as the combined concentration of Cd and BaP increased (from 5 + 5 to 
40 + 100 μM, Cd + BaP), the synergistic toxicity significantly exacerbated 
cellular damage: Cell viability decreased to as low as 34.1%, lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) release rates rose to 140.2%, and oxidative stress (with 
catalase (CAT) activity dropping to 73.4%) drove a sharp increase in apoptosis 
(early apoptosis increased from 6.76% to 15.4%, while late apoptosis rose from 
1.90% to 10.9%). Additionally, the expression levels of the pro-apoptotic gene 
Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) and executioner caspase gene Caspase-3 were 
upregulated by 1.8-fold and 3.7-fold, respectively. Cadmium and BaP promote late 
apoptosis and early apoptosis, respectively. However, their co-exposure 
synergistically exacerbates the apoptotic process by complementarily enhancing 
these pathways in cellular mechanisms. The fitting of the linear equation for 
Cd-BaP composite pollution lays the foundation for predicting the potential 
impacts of composite concentrations on the respiratory system. The research 
findings provide a scientific basis for determining the safety threshold values 
of Cd and BaP in indoor dust pollutants and for implementing environmental 
remediation strategies in residential settings.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-025-04797-6
PMID: 40973870

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s10815-025-03671-7. Online 
ahead of print.

A signature serum biomarker for non-invasive diagnosis of preeclampsia patients.

Rashid TA(1), Farhan SR(2), Khalaf AA(3), Sanghvi G(4), Uthirapathy S(5), Jyothi 
R(6), Kundlas M(7), Joshi KK(8)(9), Rudova A(10), Mustafa YF(11).

Author information:
(1)Medical Laboratory Techniques Department, College of Health and Medical 
Technology, University of Almaarif, Ramadi, Iraq. tabea.ammar@uoa.edu.iq.
(2)Biotechnology Department, College of Applied Science, Fallujah University, 
Fallujah, Iraq.
(3)Biology Department, Faculty of Education for Pure Science, University of 
Kerbala, Kerbala, Iraq.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Marwadi University Research 
Center, Marwadi University, Rajkot, 360003, Gujarat, India.
(5)Pharmacy Department, Tishk International University, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, 
Iraq.
(6)Department of Biotechnology and Genetics, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(7)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, India.
(8)Department of Applied Science, Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun, 248002, 
Uttarakhand, India.
(9)Graphic Era Deemed to Be University, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India.
(10)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University (Sechenov University), Moscow, Russia.
(11)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Mosul, Mosul, 41001, Iraq.

PURPOSE: This study seeks to identify a non-invasive biomarker for preeclampsia 
(PE), given its considerable influence on both maternal and fetal health.
METHODS: The identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in PE serum 
was conducted utilizing GSE192902. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis 
(WGCNA) was employed to identify functional modules, which were subsequently 
evaluated for their biological functions. Binary logistic regression was 
employed to evaluate genes derived from the intersection of DEGs and the most 
correlated module, with the aim of developing a biomarker model. The analysis of 
placental gene expression profiles was conducted utilizing GSE234729, and the 
model underwent validation in GSE149437.
RESULTS: Over 1500 DEGs were identified in the serum of PE patients, with 63% 
exhibiting downregulation. Co-expression analysis revealed that the expression 
patterns of PE are structured into 13 distinct modules, with the dark-red 
module, comprising 55 genes, demonstrating the most significant correlation to 
the onset of PE. Following this, eight genes from the 26 differentially 
expressed genes (ADRB1, ARX, C2orf72, FOXB2, HIC1, IRX4, MEX3D, and MIR6724-4) 
were employed to construct a biomarker model, which attained an area under the 
curve of 76% (95% CI: 69-83%) in the training cohort and 74% (95% CI: 61-87%) in 
the validation cohort. Six DEGs were identified from the intersection of results 
pertaining to serum, placenta, and the dark-red module. However, only two, 
C2orf72 and RASGEF1C, exhibited consistent downregulation in both placenta and 
blood.
CONCLUSION: This comprehensive analysis reveals a promising biomarker model that 
may facilitate early detection of PE.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10815-025-03671-7
PMID: 40973864

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Conflict of interest: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Pediatr Cardiol. 2025 Sep 20. doi: 10.1007/s00246-025-04024-y. Online ahead of
 print.

Risk Factors and Outcomes for Post-operative Arrhythmias Following the Norwood 
Operation.

Lin MJ(1), Costanza EK(2), Masotti R(2), Nayi P(3), Whitehill R(4), Beshish 
AG(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
michaeljlin12@gmail.com.
(2)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Division of Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Despite improvements in survival following staged surgical palliation for single 
ventricle heart disease, morbidity and mortality remain substantial, 
particularly during the interstage period following the Norwood operation. 
Post-operative arrhythmias are common in this population, yet their risk factors 
and impact on outcomes are not well defined. This study aims to characterize the 
risk factors and clinical outcomes of arrhythmias following the Norwood 
operation. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of neonates who underwent 
the Norwood operation between January 2010 and December 2023 at a quaternary 
care children's hospital. Clinically significant arrhythmias requiring 
pharmacologic or electrical intervention were identified. Demographic, intra-, 
and post-operative variables were collected, along with arrhythmia 
characteristics. Multivariable logistic regression was used to assess 
associations with arrhythmias and operative mortality. Among 322 patients, 
post-operative arrhythmias occurred in 107 (33.2%), with supraventricular 
tachycardias being most common. Bradyarrhythmias occurred in 3.7% of patients, 
with 58.3% requiring permanent pacemaker placement. Patients with arrhythmias 
were younger at surgery and had a higher incidence of acute kidney injury. 
Arrhythmias were associated with longer ICU (p = 0.003) and hospital stays 
(p = 0.001). Operative mortality was 18.3%, and while associated with 
arrhythmias in univariate analysis, only cardiac arrest, higher 
vasoactive-inotropic scores, and prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass time remained 
independently associated with mortality. Clinically significant arrhythmias are 
common following the Norwood operation, particularly supraventricular 
tachyarrhythmias. Younger age at surgery and post-operative acute kidney injury 
were associated with arrhythmias. Although arrhythmias were associated with 
increased morbidity, they were not independent predictors of operative 
mortality.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-025-04024-y
PMID: 40973854

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. Oncologist. 2025 Sep 19:oyaf294. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf294. Online ahead of 
print.

"Effect of a whole food plant based dietary intervention on cancer progression 
and inflammatory markers".

Rieth KKS(1), Campbell E(2), Peppone LJ(3), Netherby-Winslow C(4), Culakova 
E(5), McGuire J(3), Sun H(3), Campbell T(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester Medical Center, Department of Otolaryngology-Head and 
Neck Surgery, 601 Elmwood Ave, Box 629, Rochester, NY 14623 USA.
(2)University of Rochester Medical Center, Department of Public Health Sciences, 
Rochester, NY, USA.
(3)University of Rochester Medical Center, - Division of Supportive Care in 
Cancer, Department of Surgery, Rochester, NY, USA.
(4)University of Rochester Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Rochester, NY, 
USA.
(5)University of Rochester, Department of Surgery, Rochester, NY, USA.
(6)University of Rochester Medical Center, Department of Family Medicine, 
Rochester, NY, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Persistent inflammation and features of the tumor microenvironment 
are linked to poorer prognosis in breast cancer. This study examined the effects 
of a whole food, plant-based (WFPB) diet on serum biomarkers of proliferation, 
apoptosis, angiogenesis, and inflammation in women with metastatic breast 
cancer.
METHODS: Women with stage 4 breast cancer undergoing treatment were randomized 
to either a WFPB diet (n = 20) or usual care (n = 10) for 8 weeks. Blood samples 
collected at baseline, 4, and 8 weeks were analyzed for disease progression and 
inflammation markers, including IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12, MCP-1, PDGF-AB/BB, 
FGF-2, MIF, sFasL, TNF-α, TRAIL, CA15-3, HGF, leptin, VEGF-A, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, 
and angiopoietin-2. Data were evaluated using t-tests, ANCOVA, and Pearson's 
correlations.
RESULTS: While no statistically significant between-group differences were 
found-likely due to the small control group-several within-group changes were 
observed in the WFPB group. TNF-α decreased significantly by week 8 (p < 0.05), 
as did leptin at both weeks 4 and 8 (p < 0.001). Novel findings include 
significant decline in CA15-3 and VEGF-C levels by week 8 (both p < 0.05). 
CA15-3 positively correlated with sFasL (R = 0.72, p < 0.001), TRAIL (R = 0.58, 
p < 0.05), and TNF-α (R = 0.52, p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: This randomized trial is among the first to assess dietary 
intervention effects on progression-related biomarkers in metastatic breast 
cancer. The WFPB diet was associated with reductions in inflammatory and tumor 
markers, suggesting potential to reduce inflammation and slow disease 
progression. Further research is warranted.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf294
PMID: 40973844

1. JNCI Cancer Spectr. 2025 Sep 19:pkaf089. doi: 10.1093/jncics/pkaf089. Online 
ahead of print.

Geospatial disparities, health system factors, and breast cancer care quality.

Hassett MJ(1)(2), Tramontano AC(1), Uno H(3)(2), Ritzwoller DP(4), Punglia 
RS(5)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Data Sciences, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Institute for Health Research, Kaiser Permanente Colorado, Aurora, CO, USA.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham & 
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite longstanding efforts to improve breast cancer care quality, 
wide performance gaps persist. We sought to identify regions demonstrating 
meaningfully low performance and characterize health-system and 
health-profession factors associated with geospatial disparities.
METHODS: We used the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare linked 
database and the Health Resources and Services Administration area health 
resource file to characterize performance across healthcare service areas using 
four metrics: diagnosis stage, chemotherapy, radiation, and endocrine therapy. 
We used principal component analysis to identify healthcare facility and 
provider characteristics associated with performance; and hierarchical 
multivariable modeling to attribute total variance proportionally to five 
domains: patient characteristics, health service area region, healthcare 
facility and provider characteristics, randomness, and unexplained.
RESULTS: Among 31,571 women aged 66-79 diagnosed 2007-2013 with stage I-III 
breast cancer and treated with surgery, 61% had stage 1 disease, 23% received 
chemotherapy, 54% received radiation therapy, and 42% received endocrine 
therapy. Health system factors explained more variance for endocrine therapy 
(21%), chemotherapy (12%), and radiation therapy (12%), compared to geospatial 
region or patient characteristics. Health profession-factors were associated 
with quality for stage, radiation therapy and chemotherapy; healthcare 
facility-factors were associated with quality for stage, endocrine therapy, and 
chemotherapy. Patient characteristics explained <5% of observed variance.
CONCLUSIONS: Reassuringly, only a small number of regions demonstrated 
suboptimal breast cancer care. Optimal performance was associated with 
multidisciplinary teams and facilities with robust resources and higher volumes. 
Incorporating geospatial and health system factors into quality measurement 
efforts could foster the design of impactful quality improvement programs.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/jncics/pkaf089
PMID: 40973843

1. Lasers Med Sci. 2025 Sep 20;40(1):372. doi: 10.1007/s10103-025-04609-2.

Low-level laser and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation on salivary 
glands impact type 2 diabetes mellitus oral microbiome: an interim analysis of a 
randomized trial.

Melo JLMA(1), Nunes FPES(1), Coelho CPES(1), Heller D(2), Guimarães MDCM(1), Do 
T(3), Borges LGDA(4), Grisi DC(5), Dame-Teixeira N(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(2)UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, USA.
(3)University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom.
(4)Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. danigrisi@gmail.com.
(6)University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. nailedame@unb.br.

PURPOSE: Diabetes Mellitus (DM) can lead to significant reduction of saliva 
production, which increases the risk of oral diseases. Managing reduced salivary 
flow becomes indispensable for restoring microbial balance in this condition. 
This study aimed to investigate the effects of physical stimulation methods on 
salivary secretion rate and microbiome composition in individuals with type 2 DM 
(T2DM) having reduced salivary flow using an exploratory interim analysis of a 
randomized clinical trial.
METHODS: Eight individuals provided a total of 15 stimulated or rest saliva 
samples and were randomly assigned to the following groups: low-level laser 
therapy (LLLT) (G1), transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)(G2), and 
a combination of both methods(G3), administered twice a week over a span of 10 
sessions. Salivary flow was evaluated at three time points: recruitment, before 
the 1st session (baseline) and after the 10th session. Subjective dry mouth was 
evaluated using the TESS scale at baseline and after the final session. DNA was 
extracted from whole saliva immediately before treatment (baseline) and after 
the final stimulation session, 16 S rRNA gene amplified and sequenced (Illumina 
MiSeq).
RESULTS: N = 7 individuals showed improvement in stimulated salivary flow (SSF), 
achieving or maintaining normal range (SSF > 0.7 ml/min). Bacterial diversity 
was significantly higher in saliva after stimuli with laser(G1) when compared to 
TENS(G2). The relative abundance of Firmicutes and Fusobacteriota increased 
after all treatments, while Actinobacteriota and Proteobacteria decreased. The 
abundance of minority taxa was reduced after stimulation.
CONCLUSION: This exploratory study provides initial indications that physical 
stimulation may help manage T2DM-related reduced salivary flow and could be 
associated with subtle changes in low-abundance taxa suggesting a potential 
"clearance" effect. These preliminary observations require confirmation through 
larger, long-term studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: RBR-3tqv8r3. Date of registration: 13th April 2023.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-025-04609-2
PMID: 40973840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The study 
received approval from the Ethics Committee of the University of Brasília, under 
the number 4.748.761 CAAE 45184721.7.0000.0030, in accordance with the 
Declaration of Helsinki. Consent to participate: Informed consent was obtained 
from all individual participants included in the study. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests. Clinical trial number: This study was 
registered in the Brazilian Registry of Clinical Trials (ReBEC). Clinical Trial 
Number: RBR-3tqv8r3 (registered in 13th April 2023|| 
http://www.ensaiosclinicos.gov.br/ ).

1. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41571-025-01072-4. Online ahead
 of print.

Next-generation T cell immunotherapies engineered with CRISPR base and prime 
editing: challenges and opportunities.

Petri K(1)(2)(3), D'Ippolito E(4)(5), Künkele A(6)(7), Köhl U(8)(9), Busch 
DH(4)(5), Einsele H(10)(11)(12), Hudecek M(13)(14)(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Cellular Immunotherapy, Medical Clinic and Policlinic II, University 
Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany. petri_k@ukw.de.
(2)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Site WERA, Würzburg, Germany. 
petri_k@ukw.de.
(3)Bavarian Center for Cancer Research (BZKF), Lighthouse Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Würzburg, Germany. petri_k@ukw.de.
(4)Institute for Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Hygiene, School of 
Medicine and Health, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(5)German Center for Infection Research, Partner Site Munich, Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Pediatric Oncology/Hematology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)German Cancer Consortium, Partner Site Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(8)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Immunology IZI, Leipzig, Germany.
(9)Institute for Clinical Immunology, University Hospital of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Germany.
(10)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Site WERA, Würzburg, Germany.
(11)Bavarian Center for Cancer Research (BZKF), Lighthouse Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Würzburg, Germany.
(12)Medical Clinic and Policlinic II, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(13)Chair of Cellular Immunotherapy, Medical Clinic and Policlinic II, 
University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany. Hudecek_M@ukw.de.
(14)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Site WERA, Würzburg, Germany. 
Hudecek_M@ukw.de.
(15)Bavarian Center for Cancer Research (BZKF), Lighthouse Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Würzburg, Germany. Hudecek_M@ukw.de.
(16)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Immunology IZI, Branch Site 
Cellular Immunotherapy, Würzburg, Germany. Hudecek_M@ukw.de.

T cells can be reprogrammed with transgenic antigen recognition receptors, 
including chimeric antigen receptors and T cell receptors, to selectively 
recognize and kill cancer cells. Such adoptive T cell therapies are effective in 
patients with certain haematological cancers but challenges persist, including 
primary and secondary resistance, a lack of efficacy in patients with solid 
tumours, a narrow range of targetable antigens, and time-consuming and complex 
manufacturing processes. CRISPR-based genome editing is a potent strategy to 
enhance cellular immunotherapies. Conventional CRISPR-Cas9 systems are useful 
for gene editing, transgene knock-in or gene knockout but can result in 
undesired editing outcomes, including translocations and chromosomal 
truncations. Base editing and prime editing technologies constitute a new 
generation of CRISPR platforms and enable highly precise and programmable 
installation of defined nucleotide variants in primary T cells. Owing to their 
high precision and versatility, base editing and prime editing systems, 
hereafter collectively referred to as CRISPR 2.0, are advancing to become the 
new standard for precision-engineering of cellular immunotherapies. CRISPR 2.0 
can be used to augment immune cell function, broaden the spectrum of targetable 
antigens and facilitate streamlined production of T cell therapies. Notably, 
CRISPR 2.0 is reaching clinical maturity, with multiple clinical trials of 
CRISPR 2.0-modified cellular therapies currently ongoing. In this Review, we 
discuss emerging CRISPR 2.0 technologies and their progress towards clinical 
translation, highlighting challenges and opportunities, and describe strategies 
for the use of CRISPR 2.0 to advance cellular immunotherapy for haematological 
malignancies and solid tumours in the future.

© 2025. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41571-025-01072-4
PMID: 40973826

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: K.P. has a financial 
interest in and is an equity owner of SeQure Dx and is listed as an inventor on 
granted patents related to CRISPR technologies that have been filed by 
Massachusetts General Hospital. U.K. had received consultancy and/or speaker 
fees from Affimed, AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) GammaDelta, 
Glycostem, Miltenyi Biotec, Novartis and Zelluna. H.E. declares consulting or 
advisory roles for and has received honoraria from Amgen, BMS/Celgene, GSK, 
Janssen, Novartis, Sanofi and Takeda; research funding from Amgen, BMS/Celgene, 
GSK, Janssen and Sanofi; and travel support from Amgen, BMS/Celgene, Janssen, 
Novartis, Sanofi and Takeda. M.H. is listed as an inventor on patent 
applications and granted patents related to CAR T cell technologies that have 
been filed by the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and by the University 
of Würzburg; is a cofounder and equity owner of T-CURX; has received honoraria 
from BMS/Celgene, Janssen and Kite/Gilead. E.D., A.K. and D.H.B. declare no 
competing interests.

1. J Antibiot (Tokyo). 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41429-025-00866-z. Online ahead
 of print.

Genomic and chemical profiling of Botryosphaeria dothidea: cryptic biosynthetic 
gene clusters and secondary metabolites in agarwood formation.

Duan XY(1)(2)(3), Hu DB(4), Pandith H(2), Disayathanoowat T(2), Bai X(1), Han 
YJ(1), Kong QH(1), Yang J(1)(3), Luo JF(1), Li XY(5), Inta A(6), Wang YH(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Economic Plants and Biotechnology, Yunnan Key Laboratory 
for Wild Plant Resources, and State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Natural 
Medicines, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, PR 
China.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, 
Thailand.
(3)Yunnan International Joint Laboratory of Health Plant Resources Development, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, PR China.
(4)School of Chemical Biology and Environment, Yuxi Normal University, Yuxi, PR 
China.
(5)College of Science, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming, PR China. 
lixingyu@ynau.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, 
Thailand. aungkanainta@hotmail.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of Economic Plants and Biotechnology, Yunnan Key Laboratory 
for Wild Plant Resources, and State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Natural 
Medicines, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, PR 
China. wangyuehu@mail.kib.ac.cn.
(8)Yunnan International Joint Laboratory of Health Plant Resources Development, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, PR China. 
wangyuehu@mail.kib.ac.cn.

This study first integrates genomic and chemical analyses of Botryosphaeria 
dothidea isolated from Aquilaria sinensis to investigate its role in agarwood 
formation. Whole-genome sequencing revealed a 44.33 Mb assembly encoding 69 
biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs). antiSMASH analysis revealed that 37 of these 
BGCs (53.6%) display no significant similarity to known pathways in the MIBiG 
database, which is dominated by NRPS-like, T1PKS, and terpene types. Chemical 
profiling of the fungal fermentation extract led to the identification of ten 
compounds, including the new 4-hydroxyphenethyl (S)-5-oxofuran-2-carboxylate 
(1), along with known phenylethanoid derivatives (2, 3), cyclic peptides (5-7), 
and others (4, 8-10). Bioassays revealed weak anti-MRSA activity for compounds 
4, 7, 9, and 10, with ergosterol peroxide (10) additionally showing moderate 
anti-inflammatory effects (IC50 = 31.0 μM) via NO suppression. Genomic and 
chemical analyses confirmed conserved pathways for metabolites such as ACT-Toxin 
II and clavaric acid. Notably, the isolated metabolites 1-3 were found to 
structurally mimic key precursors of host-derived 2-(2-phenylethyl)chromones 
(PECs). This structural mimicry suggests a mechanism for host-pathogen crosstalk 
that potentially triggers defense responses, such as resin accumulation. These 
findings uncover the genetic and chemical basis of B. dothidea's role in 
agarwood formation and provide a foundation for developing artificial induction 
strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Japan Antibiotics Research 
Association.

DOI: 10.1038/s41429-025-00866-z
PMID: 40973825

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical Standards. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Mamm Genome. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s00335-025-10157-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Identification and functional analysis of Rattus norvegicus Mammary carcinoma 
susceptibility 1b (Mcs1b) nominated variants.

Sanders J(1), Kalbfleisch TS(2), Le S(1), Xu X(1)(3), Cummins TD(4), Powell 
DW(5), Samuelson DJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, KY, USA.
(2)Gluck Equine Research Center, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(3)Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, 261053, China.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA. 
david.powell@louisville.edu.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, KY, USA. david.samuelson@louisville.edu.

Rattus norvegicus (a.k.a. laboratory rat or Brown Rat) Mammary carcinoma 
susceptibility 1b (Mcs1b) is a concordant ortholog of a female breast cancer 
risk allele at human 5q11.2. Previously, Mcs1b was delimited to a 1.8 Mb 
interval of RNO2 and Map3k1 along with Mier3 were determined to be 
Mcs1b-nonminated genes. This conclusion was based on shared synteny with human 
5q11.2 and differential gene expression between cancer susceptible and Mcs1b 
resistant mammary glands. In this study, targeted genome sequencing of cancer 
susceptible and Mcs1b resistance associated alleles was used to identify three 
Mcs1b-nominated quantitative trait nucleotides (QTNs) in noncoding DNA. In vitro 
approaches, luciferase activity and electromobility shift assays, were used to 
suggest these variants reside in potential gene regulatory elements. One of 
these variants, UL-A74-SNV-17, resulted in luciferase activities that were 
2.6× higher for the susceptibility associated variant compared to the resistance 
associated variant. These results recapitulated Mcs1b nominated gene transcript 
level differences between Mcs1b genotypes in mammary epithelial cells (MECs), 
where Map3k1 and Mier3 were 1.5- to 2.0-fold higher for the susceptible genotype 
compared to the Mcs1b resistance-associated genotype. Evidence of a chromatin 
loop in Mcs1b that may position Mcs1b QTNs near distal genes was uncovered using 
chromosome confirmation capture (3C). Rat Mcs1b was also functionally 
characterized by determining that Mcs1b genotype had effects on the amount of 
luminal MECs in adult mammary glands. In conclusion, UL-A74-SNV-17 is a priority 
candidate Mcs1b QTN with a hypothesized mechanistic role in the differential 
regulation of Mcs1b nominated genes, Mier3 and Map3k1.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00335-025-10157-5
PMID: 40973823

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. Mamm Genome. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s00335-025-10158-4. Online ahead of 
print.

Exploration of plasma genetic markers mediating lung cancer-induced 
cardiovascular disorders based on genome wide association studies.

Wang T(1), Miao X(2), Wang Y(3), Chandran SC(1), Xia Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, Liaoning, China.
(2)Department of Cancer Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, Liaoning, China.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, 
Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, Liaoning, China. dlmu_xiayunlong@163.com.

Lung cancer is strongly associated with increased cardiovascular disease (CVD) 
risk, yet the molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Batched two-sample 
Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was performed to investigate cancer types 
and CVDs with significant associations. Local genetic correlation analyses were 
performed to identify meaningful genetic regions. Genomic Structural Equation 
Modeling (gSEM) was applied to identify latent factors shared between selected 
cancer types and CVDs. A transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) was 
performed to identify relevant genetic markers. A two-stage MR analysis was 
performed to investigate potential mediators. Colocalization analysis was 
performed to assess the sensitivity of the results. Seventeen cancer types were 
positively associated with CVD risk, with lung cancer exhibiting the strongest 
link. Using LAVA and ρ-HESS, we identified local genetic correlations between 
lung cancer and specific CVDs, including coronary artery disease (CAD), heart 
failure (HF), abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), and atrial fibrillation (AF). 
Weighted median MR analysis identified a negative effect for IREB2 (OR = 0.9; 
95% CI 0.84-0.95; P < 0.05), and positive effects for both KRTCAP2 (OR = 1.1; 
95% CI 1.02-1.21; P < 0.05) and MTX1P1 (OR = 1.1; 95% CI 1.02-1.21; P < 0.05), 
on lung cancer-induced AAA. ZBTB7B exhibited a positive mediating effect in the 
association between lung cancer and HF risk (OR = 1.04; 95% CI 1.01-1.07; 
P < 0.05). This study highlights IREB2, KRTCAP2, MTX1P1, and ZBTB7B as potential 
therapeutic targets for cancer-related CVD risk, emphasizing the importance of 
considering genetic factors in understanding and managing cardiovascular 
complications associated with lung cancer.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00335-025-10158-4
PMID: 40973822

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable.

1. Nat Metab. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s42255-025-01368-w. Online ahead of
print.

Fructose and glucose from sugary drinks enhance colorectal cancer metastasis via 
SORD.

Feng T(#)(1), Luo Q(#)(2), Liu Y(1), Jin Z(1), Skwarchuk D(1), Lee R(3), Nam 
M(2), Asara JM(4), Adye DR(1), Lorenzi PL(5), Tan L(5), Pei G(6), Zhao Z(6), 
Zarrin-Khameh N(7), Paulucci-Holthauzen A(1), Simons BW(8), Lee JS(9), Kopetz 
S(10), Yun J(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Division of Signal Transduction, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and 
Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Metabolomics Core Facility, Department of Bioinformatics and Computational 
Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(6)Center for Precision Health, McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology & Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
TX, USA.
(8)Center for Comparative Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(9)Department of Systems Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(10)Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(11)Department of Genetics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA. jyun@mdanderson.org.
(#)Contributed equally

The consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs), which contain high levels 
of fructose and glucose, has been causally and mechanistically linked to an 
increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the effects of SSB 
consumption on advanced stages of disease progression, including metastasis, 
remain poorly understood. Here we show that exposure of CRC cells to a glucose 
and fructose formulation-reflecting the composition of both high-fructose corn 
syrup and sucrose found in SSBs-enhances cellular motility and metastatic 
potential compared to glucose alone. Given that CRC cells grow poorly in 
fructose alone, and cells in vivo are not physiologically exposed to fructose 
without glucose, we excluded the fructose-only condition from our studies unless 
needed as a control. Mechanistically, the combination of glucose and fructose 
elevates the NAD⁺/NADH ratio by activation of the reverse reaction of sorbitol 
dehydrogenase in the polyol pathway. This redox shift relieves NAD⁺ limitations 
and accelerates glycolytic activity, which in turn fuels activation of the 
mevalonate pathway, ultimately promoting CRC cell motility and metastasis. Our 
findings highlight the detrimental impact of SSBs on CRC progression and suggest 
potential dietary and therapeutic strategies to mitigate metastasis in patients 
with CRC.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42255-025-01368-w
PMID: 40973819

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.

1. Nat Metab. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s42255-025-01371-1. Online ahead of
print.

Mapping the plasma metabolome to human health and disease in 274,241 adults.

You J(#)(1)(2), Cui XH(#)(1), Chen YL(#)(1), Wang YX(#)(1), Li HY(#)(1), Qiang 
YX(#)(1), Cheng JY(#)(1), Deng YT(#)(1), Guo Y(1), Ren P(1)(2), Zhang Y(1), He 
Y(1), He XY(1), Chen SD(1), Zhang YR(1), Huang YY(1), Mao Y(3), Feng 
JF(4)(5)(6), Cheng W(7)(8), Yu JT(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Academy of Natural Sciences (SANS), Shanghai 
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Fudan University, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Academy of Natural Sciences (SANS), Shanghai 
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. jianfeng64@gmail.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Fudan University, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China. jianfeng64@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK. 
jianfeng64@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Academy of Natural Sciences (SANS), Shanghai 
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. wcheng.fdu@gmail.com.
(8)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Fudan University, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China. wcheng.fdu@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Huashan Hospital, Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Academy of Natural Sciences (SANS), Shanghai 
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. jintai_yu@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

A systematic characterization of metabolic profiles in human health and disease 
enhances precision medicine. Here we present a comprehensive human 
metabolome-phenome atlas, using data from 274,241 UK Biobank participants with 
nuclear magnetic resonance metabolic measures. This atlas links 313 plasma 
metabolites to 1,386 diseases and 3,142 traits, with participants being 
prospectively followed for a median of 14.9 years. This atlas uncovered 52,836 
metabolite-disease and 73,639 metabolite-trait associations, where the ratio of 
cholesterol to total lipids in large low-density lipoprotein percentage was 
found as the metabolite associated with the highest number (n = 526) of 
diseases. In addition, we found that more than half (57.5%) of metabolites 
showed statistical variations from healthy individuals over a decade before 
disease onset. Combined with demographics, the machine-learning-based metabolic 
risk score signified the top 30 (around 10%) metabolites as biomarkers, yielding 
favourable classification performance (area under the curve > 0.8) for 94 
prevalent and 81 incident diseases. Finally, Mendelian randomization analyses 
provided support for causal relationships of 454 metabolite-disease pairs, among 
which 402 exhibited shared genetic determinants. Additional insights can be 
gleaned via an accessible interactive resource ( 
https://metabolome-phenome-atlas.com/ ).

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42255-025-01371-1
PMID: 40973818

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.

1. Nat Biomed Eng. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41551-025-01512-7. Online ahead of 
print.

Spatial profiling of gene editing by in situ sequencing in mice and macaques.

Janjuha S(#)(1), Haenggi T(#)(2), Chamberlain TC(3), Rothgangl T(2), Kissling 
L(2), Wilhelm M(2), Mathis N(2), Boeck D(2), Marquart K(2), Ioannidi E(2), Moon 
WJ(3), Muramatsu H(4), Vadovics M(4), Pardi N(4), Semple SC(3), Tam YK(3), 
Schwank G(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. sharan.janjuha@pharma.uzh.ch.
(2)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(3)Acuitas Therapeutics, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. schwank@pharma.uzh.ch.
(#)Contributed equally

Base and prime editing technologies precisely install defined nucleotide edits 
in both dividing and non-dividing cells, offering potential for correcting 
pathogenic mutations directly in organisms. However, to fully leverage their 
therapeutic potential, accurately measuring editing rates with high spatial 
resolution is crucial. Here we use imaging-based in situ sequencing (ISS) to map 
base and prime editing events within native tissues. We establish and validate 
this technology in mouse brains treated with intein-split adenine base editors 
or prime editors delivered via adeno-associated viral vectors. We next apply ISS 
in the liver of mice and macaques treated with adenine base editors encoded on 
lipid nanoparticle-encapsulated mRNA and guide RNA (RNA-LNP). Effective editing 
was observed across all metabolic zones of liver lobules. Moreover, in 
experiments where repeated doses of RNA-LNP are administered, the initial dose 
does not affect the editing efficiency and distribution of the subsequent dose. 
Our results demonstrate how ISS can visualize gene editing events in vivo and 
suggest that base editor delivery using RNA-LNP could be used to address a wide 
spectrum of metabolic liver diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41551-025-01512-7
PMID: 40973816

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: T.C.C., W.J.M., S.C.S. and 
Y.K.T. are employees of Acuitas Therapeutics. G.S. and K.M. are co-founders of 
Nerai Bio. G.S. is a scientific adviser to Prime Medicine. The other authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. Nat Protoc. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41596-025-01240-x. Online ahead of
print.

Aspiration-assisted bioprinting of spheroids.

Kim MH(1)(2), Ozbolat IT(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)The Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Penn State University, University 
Park, PA, USA.
(2)Engineering Science and Mechanics Department, Penn State University, 
University Park, PA, USA.
(3)The Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Penn State University, University 
Park, PA, USA. ito1@psu.edu.
(4)Engineering Science and Mechanics Department, Penn State University, 
University Park, PA, USA. ito1@psu.edu.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Penn State University, University Park, 
PA, USA. ito1@psu.edu.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 
Hershey, PA, USA. ito1@psu.edu.
(7)Materials Research Institute, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 
USA. ito1@psu.edu.
(8)Biotechnology Research and Application Center, Cukurova University, Adana, 
Turkey. ito1@psu.edu.

Aspiration-assisted bioprinting (AAB) is a versatile biofabrication technique 
that enables the precise and selective patterning of biologics, such as tissue 
spheroids and organoids, addressing limitations of conventional bioprinting 
techniques. AAB facilitates the fabrication of (1) tissues with physiologically 
relevant cell densities using spheroids and (2) advanced tissue models that 
replicate three-dimensional microenvironments essential for studying cellular 
responses, disease development and drug testing. Here we provide reliable and 
reproducible guidelines for the precise positioning of abovementioned biologics, 
incorporating two operational modes: (1) a single-nozzle mode for precise, 
one-by-one bioprinting and (2) a high-throughput mode using a digitally 
controllable nozzle array, enabling the rapid and simultaneous placement of 
multiple spheroids for scalable tissue fabrication. Comprehensive instructions 
are included for setting up the AAB platform, operating software and key 
operational procedures, including optimization of bioprinting conditions. This 
Protocol enables users to build and operate their own AAB platform depending on 
target applications, achieving fine control over spheroid positioning through 
successful aspiration and their precise placement under optimized conditions. 
This Protocol enables the setup of the AAB platform within 1-2 d. Bioprinting 
time varies depending on the number of spheroids to bioprint: the single-nozzle 
mode requires ~30 s per spheroid, while the high-throughput mode can print 64 
spheroids in 3-4 min. Designed for accessibility and adaptability, this Protocol 
is suitable for users from a variety of backgrounds, including engineering, 
biology, pharmacy and medical sciences, who require bioprinting of spheroids for 
creating microphysiological systems for drug testing and disease modeling and 
implantable grafts for regenerative medicine.

© 2025. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41596-025-01240-x
PMID: 40973814

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: I.T.O. has an equity stake 
in Biolife4D and is a member of the scientific advisory board for Biolife4D and 
Healshape. The remaining author declares no competing interests.

1. J Appl Microbiol. 2025 Sep 19:lxaf231. doi: 10.1093/jambio/lxaf231. Online
ahead  of print.

Fructophilic metabolism of mannitol-producing Fructobacillus strains under 
different carbon sources and electron acceptors.

Mohamed F(1), Ruiz Rodríguez LG(1), De Vuyst L(2), Raya RR(1), Mozzi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA)-CONICET, Chacabuco 145, 4000 
San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO), 
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Pleinlaan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.

AIMS: Fructobacillus requires electron acceptors (fructose, pyruvate, or oxygen) 
for glucose metabolism. They metabolize fructose as an energy source by using 
fructokinase (FK) and glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), and as an electron 
acceptor, reducing it to the low-calorie sugar mannitol by using mannitol 
2-dehydrogenase (MDH) enzyme. We aimed to study the physiological and 
biochemical traits of Fructobacillus sp. CRL 2054 and F. tropaeoli CRL 2034, 
belonging to two different genomic clades, to further improve their mannitol 
production.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Microbial growth and mannitol production under different 
carbon sources, saccharide concentrations, and electron acceptors were assayed. 
The activities and gene expression of the enzymes involved in carbohydrate 
metabolism and mannitol production by Fructobacillus, along with their genomic 
context, were determined. Both strains grew up to 40% (w v-1) carbohydrates, 
while mannitol production decreased with 20% (w v-1) of sugars. Pyruvate 
competed with fructose as an electron acceptor, reducing mannitol production and 
MDH activity in both strains. The mdh gene was upregulated while fk and gpi 
genes were downregulated under glucose, regulating the use of fructose as 
electron acceptor.
CONCLUSIONS: Both Fructobacillus strains were highly osmotolerant. Mannitol 
production decreased with sugar concentrations above 15% (w v-1), suggesting its 
use as a compatible solute against osmotic stress. Pyruvate competed with 
fructose as an electron acceptor, reducing mannitol production, while fructose 
was reduced to mannitol in the presence of glucose by regulating genes involved 
in fructose metabolism.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Applied 
Microbiology International. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jambio/lxaf231
PMID: 40973811

1. J Crohns Colitis. 2025 Sep 19:jjaf173. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjaf173. Online 
ahead of print.

Implementation of Values based healthcare in inflammatory bowel disease-a review 
article.

Hilley P(1)(2)(3), Chin S(1)(2), Wong D(1)(2), De Cruz P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Austin Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Austin Health, Melbourne, Australia.

The rising global prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and costs of 
care associated with its management mandates the need to constrain costs whilst 
improving patient outcomes. Traditional care models such as fee for service do 
not capture the functional impact of IBD across the whole patient journey. There 
is a need to develop innovative care models to better address the multifaceted 
needs of patients with IBD. Values based healthcare(VBHC) is a model of care 
that aims to deliver quality care by prioritising outcomes that matter to 
patients in a manner that demonstrates cost-effectiveness of health service 
provision. In this comprehensive scoping review of the literature, we examine 
the implementation of VBHC-orientated approaches to IBD care delivery and assess 
how they have demonstrated value in relation to clinical outcomes, patient 
reported outcomes (PROs), costs (direct and indirect) and healthcare utilisation 
(HCU). In addition, we outline key enablers and barriers to implementation of 
VBHC models in IBD. We then describe the ideal composition of IBD VBHC models 
and parameters required for implementation and demonstration of their value 
proposition.

Plain Language Summary: Novel care models incorporating value-based healthcare 
principles have been developed in inflammatory bowel disease, striving to 
improve sustainability of care delivery. Their impact on clinical/patient 
reported outcomes, costs and healthcare utilisation as well as enablers/barriers 
to successful implementation are described.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European 
Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjaf173
PMID: 40973801

1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2025 Sep 19:fnaf099. doi: 10.1093/femsle/fnaf099. Online 
ahead of print.

Understanding the role of the cytadhesins on the pathogenesis and transmission 
of Mycoplasma genitalium infection: a minireview.

Fernández-Huerta M(1), Moure Z(2)(3), Fidalgo B(4), Espasa M(4).

Author information:
(1)Microbiology Department, Gran Canaria University Hospital Doctor Negrín, Las 
Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.
(2)Microbiology Department, Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Valdecilla (IDIVAL), Santander, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Infecciosas 
(CIBERINFEC), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Microbiology Department, Hospital Clínic, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

First isolated in 1981, Mycoplasma genitalium is now well recognized as a 
frequent cause of urethritis and several other urogenital syndromes in both men 
and women. The cytoadhesins P110 (MgpC) and P140 (MgpB), located in the terminal 
organelle of the bacterium, mediate the establishment and persistence of M. 
genitalium infection in the reproductive tract tissues. This adhesion complex 
exposes a large extracellular domain, mediating bacterial adhesion to the 
anogenital tissue. The antigenic variation promoted by reciprocal recombination 
contribute to the efficient colonization of the urogenital environment and the 
immune evasion strategy of the bacterium. Although M. genitalium was 
traditionally detected in ano-genital samples, sexual transmission was not 
postulated until the early 2000s. Now, it is well accepted that M. genitalium 
can lead to a sexually transmitted infection. While vaginal sex may constitute 
the primary transmission route in terms of risk, anal intercourse in men who 
have sex with men is likely the most common cause of spread. Acknowledging the 
exquisite adaptation of the bacterium to diverse ecological niches in the human 
body, the unique features of the proteins P110 and P140 may influence 
transmission, dissemination and disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS. 
All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for 
reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be 
obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article 
page on our site-for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaf099
PMID: 40973799

1. FEMS Yeast Res. 2025 Sep 19:foaf055. doi: 10.1093/femsyr/foaf055. Online ahead
 of print.

The Sef1 Transcription Factor Interacts with Promoters of Riboflavin Structural 
Genes in Candida famata.

Romanov S(1), Lyzak O(2), Sibirny A(1)(3), Dmytruk K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cell Biology, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Lviv, 
Ukraine.
(2)Flanders Institute for Biotechnology / KU Leuven Center for Microbiology, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(3)University of Rzeszow, Rzeszow, Poland.

Riboflavin (vitamin B2) serves as a precursor for the flavin coenzymes FAD and 
FMN, which are involved in numerous redox reactions in cells. Riboflavin is 
produced on an industrial scale. The yeast Candida famata overproduces 
riboflavin under iron-starvation conditions, and mutants have been isolated that 
accumulate large amounts of riboflavin. Overexpression of Sef1, the 
transcription factor of the zinc cluster family, increases riboflavin production 
in C. famata, however, the specific mechanism remains unknown. Here, we report 
that SEF1 expression is upregulated under iron deficiency. We developed a yeast 
one-hybrid system based on the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to study the role 
of Sef1 in regulation of riboflavin biosynthesis. We found that Sef1 activates 
the promoters of the RIB1, RIB3, RIB5, RIB6, and RIB7 genes. Additionally, SEF1 
was shown to undergo autoregulation. For the RIB1 promoter, a Sef1 binding 
sequence has been identified. The ability of Sef1 to activate RIB genes 
expression was further validated in the native C. famata system.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femsyr/foaf055
PMID: 40973787

1. J Crohns Colitis. 2025 Sep 19:jjaf172. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjaf172. Online 
ahead of print.

Validation of prediction models for anti-tumor necrosis factor treatment 
response in pediatric Crohn's disease: a systematic review and prospective 
cohort study.

Rotem-Tryfus O(1)(2), Kang B(3), Orlanski-Meyer E(1), Ledder O(1)(2), Lev Tzion 
R(1), Choi S(3), Choe BH(3), Kang Y(3), Yogev D(1)(2), Shemasne I(1), Shawar 
M(1), Focht G(1)(2), Turner D(1)(2), Atia O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Juliet Keidan Institute of Pediatric 
Gastroenterology Hepatology and Nutrition, The Eisenberg R&D Authority.
(2)The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Kyungpook National University, 
Korea.

BACKGROUND: External validation of predictors of anti-tumor necrosis factor 
(TNF) outcomes remains limited, particularly in children. We conducted a 
systematic review (SR) of the literature to identify predictors of therapeutic 
success and validated them in a prospective pediatric cohort.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and Embase for studies reporting clinical and 
laboratory predictors of anti-TNF outcomes in Crohn's disease (CD). Identified 
predictors were evaluated in a prospective cohort of 186 children with CD 
initiating anti-TNF. Univariable logistic regression assessed individual 
predictors, and previously published multivariable models were validated using 
the area under the curve (AUC).
RESULTS: Of the 4,840 studies screened, 42 were included; 7 (17%) focused on 
children and only four were rated as low risk of bias. We identified 24 
individual predictors and five multi-item models. Of these, prior corticosteroid 
use (odds ratio [OR], 2.84, 95% CI, 1.12-7.15) and immunomodulator combination 
therapy (OR 6.36, 95% CI, 2.39-17.10) were associated with increased risk of 
primary non-response. Disease activity at 4 months, reflected by C-reactive 
protein and disease activity indices, predicted remission at 12 months. Loss of 
response was associated with elevated inflammatory markers at 4 months and with 
partial clinical response. The five multivariable models demonstrated varying 
performance in children (AUC 0.54-0.76).
CONCLUSION: Only a few of the variables suggested to predict response to 
anti-TNF showed acceptable performance in pediatric CD, mainly those that 
included post-induction indicators. These findings highlight the limited 
generalizability of existing predictors and the importance of external 
validation before clinical implementation of prediction rules.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European 
Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjaf172
PMID: 40973786

1. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-03213-8. Online ahead of 
print.

hiPSC-derived cortical neurons from ADHD individuals reveal dysregulated 
glutamatergic development.

McNeill RV(1), Schickardt Z(2), Radtke F(3), Blum R(4), Kittel-Schneider 
S(2)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, University 
Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany. McNeill_R@ukw.de.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, University 
Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and 
Psychosomatic Medicine, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioural Science; University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(6)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a chronic neurodevelopmental 
disorder characterised by inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity, 
significantly impacting life quality and mortality. It is among the most 
heritable neuropsychiatric disorders, yet its aetiology remains unclear, 
hindering the development of novel medications. Previously, research has 
primarily focused on the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems using animal 
models. However, there is growing evidence for a role of the glutamatergic 
system in ADHD pathomechanisms, and a translational failure between pre-clinical 
animal models and human clinical trials. We therefore established and 
characterised a functional cortical neuronal model using human induced 
pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to investigate glutamatergic development in 
healthy controls and adult ADHD patients. hiPSCs from healthy controls and ADHD 
patients showed no difference in their capacity to form cortical neurons (CNs). 
However, CNs from ADHD patients showed an altered developmental pattern, 
characterised by changes in extracellular glutamate and decreased transcription 
of NEUN, PSD95 and EEAT2. Moreover, a significant ~50% reduction in vGLUT2 
transcription was observed at multiple time points, suggesting a robust cellular 
disease endophenotype which might be suitable for future drug screening. Lastly, 
calcium imaging analysis revealed decreased synaptic signalling strength and 
frequency, indicating a hypoactive phenotype. In summary, we were able to 
establish a functional hiPSC-derived cortical neuronal model to investigate ADHD 
pathomechanisms, which revealed impaired glutamatergic development in ADHD 
individuals. Our results suggest that the glutamatergic system should also be a 
target for future drug development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-03213-8
PMID: 40973785

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: RVM and ZS have no conflict 
of interest to declare. SKS has received speaker’s and author’s honoraria from 
Janssen, Takeda and Medice Arzneimittel Puetter GmbH&Co KG.

1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2025 Sep 19:fnaf087. doi: 10.1093/femsle/fnaf087. Online 
ahead of print.

Co-infection of phylogenetically distinct nucleocytoviruses in Acanthamoeba 
castellanii cells.

Morimoto D(1), Usutani R(2), Tateishi N(2), Funaoka Y(3), Takahashi M(4), 
Nagasaki K(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science and Technology, Kochi University, Nankoku, Kochi 783-8502, 
Japan.
(2)Faculty of Agriculture and Marine Science, Kochi University, Nankoku, Kochi 
783-8502, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Kuroshio Science, Kochi University, Nankoku, Kochi 
783-8502, Japan.
(4)Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, Nankoku, Kochi 783-8505, Japan.

Nucleocytoviruses have extraordinarily large double-stranded DNA genome, 
including a set of highly conserved genes for viral reproduction. Meanwhile, 
nucleocytoviruses supposedly acquire new genes from cellular organisms and 
different lineages of nucleocytovirus, leading to their evolution. Although 
horizontal gene transfer among nucleocytoviruses is thought to occur in the cell 
simultaneously infected by distinct nucleocytoviruses, it remains unknown which 
combination of lineages can co-infect host cell. Here, we performed co-infection 
experiments using cedratvirus, megavirus, mollivirus, and pandoravirus. By 
transmission electron microscopy, we observed Acanthamoeba castellanii cells 
incorporating two distinct viral species in all six combinations. Furthermore, 
A. castellanii cell incorporating all four viral species was observed. In these 
experiments, a simultaneous increase in viral particles was observed for the 
combination of mollivirus and pandoravirus, pandoravirus and cedratvirus, 
mollivirus and cedratvirus, and megavirus and cedratvirus. Furthermore, 
transcription levels of cedratvirus and megavirus genes in the co-infected 
culture were significantly lower than those in the mono-infected culture based 
on time-course experiments, suggesting that distinct nucleocytoviruses may 
compete for viral reproduction. This is the first report experimentally 
demonstrating that co-infection of distinct nucleocytoviruses occurs in A. 
castellanii cell.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaf087
PMID: 40973782

1. Eye (Lond). 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41433-025-04025-4. Online ahead of
print.

Dual site external validation of artificial intelligence-enabled treatment 
monitoring for neovascular age-related macular degeneration in England.

Hogg HDJ(1)(2)(3), Talks SJ(4), Engelmann J(5), Teare MD(6), Pogose M(7), Patel 
PJ(8), Balaskas K(8), Maniatopoulos G(9), Keane PA(10)(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK. 
J.Hogg.1@bham.ac.uk.
(2)Institute for Inflammation and Ageing, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK. J.Hogg.1@bham.ac.uk.
(3)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK. 
J.Hogg.1@bham.ac.uk.
(4)Newcastle Eye Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(5)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(7)Hardian Health, Haywards Heath, UK.
(8)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital and UCL Institute 
of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(9)School of Business, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(10)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Monitoring neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) is a 
significant contributor to ophthalmology demands in the NHS, with clinical 
capacity struggling to meet the demand. This task depends upon interpreting 
retinal optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging, where artificial 
intelligence (AI) could rebalance clinical demand and capacity. However, 
evidence of safety and effectiveness in nAMD monitoring is lacking.
METHODS: Using a published non-inferiority design protocol, 521 pairs of 
ipsilateral retinal OCTs from consecutive visits for nAMD treatment were 
collected from two NHS ophthalmology services. Real-world binary assessments of 
nAMD disease activity or stability were compared to an independent ophthalmic 
reading centre reference standard. An AI system capable of retinal OCT 
segmentation analysed the OCTs, applying thresholds for intraretinal and 
subretinal fluid to generate binary assessments. The relative negative 
predictive value (rNPV) of AI versus real-world assessments was calculated.
RESULTS: Real-world assessments of nAMD activity showed a NPV of 81.6% 
(57.3-81.6%) and a positive predictive value (PPV) of 41.5% (17.8-62.3%). 
Optimised thresholds for intraretinal fluid increase (>1,000,000 µm³) and 
subretinal fluid increase (>2,000,000 µm³) for the AI system assessments 
produced an NPV of 95.3% (85.5-97.9%) and PPV of 57.8% (29.4-76.0%). The rNPV of 
1.17 (1.11-1.23) met predefined criteria for clinical and statistical 
superiority and accompanied an rPPV of 1.39 (1.10-1.76).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the same thresholds for interpreting 
OCT-based AI analysis could reduce undertreatment and overtreatment in nAMD 
monitoring at different centres. Interventional research is needed to test the 
potential of supportive or autonomous AI assessments of nAMD disease activity to 
improve the quality and efficiency of services.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41433-025-04025-4
PMID: 40973777

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HDJH – No conflicts of 
interest JE – No conflicts of interest. MDT – No conflicts of interest MP is an 
officer of a company offering consultancy services to manufacturers of Software 
as a Medical Device. SJT has acted on advisory boards for Bayer and Roche, 
received travel and speaker fees for Bayer, Roche, Heidelberg engineering, 
Alimera Sciences LTD and research support from Bayer, Roche, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Janssen Pharmaceuticals and Alexion Pharmaceuticals. PJP has acted as 
a consultant for Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Genentech and Roche. He has 
received travel support from Bayer and Roche. KB has received speaker fees from 
Novartis, Bayer, Roche, and Boehringer-Ingelheim; equity in READ AI; meeting or 
travel fees from Novartis and Bayer; compensation for being on an advisory board 
from Novartis and Roche; consulting fees from Roche and Boehringer-Ingelheim; 
research support from Apellis, Novartis, and Bayer. GM – No conflicts of 
interest. PAK has acted as a consultant for Retina Consultants of America, 
Topcon, Roche, Boehringer-Ingelheim, and Bitfount and is an equity owner in Big 
Picture Medical. He has received speaker fees from Zeiss, Novartis, Gyroscope, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Apellis, Roche, AbbVie, Topcon, and Hakim Group. He has 
received travel support from Bayer, Topcon, and Roche. He has attended advisory 
boards for Topcon, Bayer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, RetinAI, and Novartis. Ethics: 
Ethical approval was granted for this work by the Greater Manchester South 
Research Ethics Committee, reference 21/NW/0138.

1. Leukemia. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41375-025-02765-6. Online ahead of print.

Epitranscriptomic advances in normal and malignant hematopoiesis.

Eleftheriou M(#)(1)(2)(3), Russell J(#)(1)(2), Tzelepis K(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Milner Therapeutics Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
kt404@cam.ac.uk.
(5)Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
kt404@cam.ac.uk.
(6)Milner Therapeutics Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
kt404@cam.ac.uk.
(7)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge, UK. kt404@cam.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

RNA modifications, collectively termed the epitranscriptome, constitute a 
dynamic layer of post-transcriptional regulation that governs RNA splicing, 
stability, localization, translation, and decay. In the hematopoietic system, 
these chemical marks influence stem cell fate, lineage specification, immune 
surveillance, and malignant transformation through context-dependent regulation 
of mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, and non-coding RNAs. Here, we focus on RNA modifications 
and editing events with emerging mechanistic and translational relevance in 
normal and malignant hematopoiesis, highlighting those implicated in stem cell 
dynamics, leukemic progression, and therapeutic resistance. Specifically, we 
discuss N⁶-methyladenosine (m⁶A), 5-methylcytosine (m⁵C), N⁷-methylguanosine 
(m⁷G), N⁴-acetylcytidine (ac⁴C), pseudouridine (Ψ), adenosine-to-inosine 
(A-to-I) editing, and RNA glycosylation. Particular attention is given to 
enzymes such as METTL3, METTL1, ADAR1, and NAT10, whose dysregulation sustains 
leukemic stem cell programmes, promotes immune evasion, and confers treatment 
resistance. With the first-in-class METTL3 inhibitor STC-15 now in early-phase 
clinical trials in solid tumours (NCT05584111, NCT06975293), and additional 
RNA-modifying enzyme inhibitors advancing preclinically, these pathways are 
emerging as therapeutically tractable, including in hematological cancers. 
Furthermore, integrating epitranscriptomic profiles into genomic risk frameworks 
may also improve disease stratification, minimal residual disease (MRD) 
monitoring, and the identification of targetable vulnerabilities. Together, 
these insights position RNA modifications as central to blood cancer biology and 
support their integration into next-generation diagnostic, prognostic, and 
therapeutic strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-025-02765-6
PMID: 40973767

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: KT has received stock 
options and research funding from Storm Therapeutics.

1. Leukemia. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41375-025-02755-8. Online ahead of print.

Clinical and transcriptomic characterization of patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia harboring t(14;19): an ERIC study.

Visentin A(#)(1), Gaffo E(#)(2), Fürstenau M(3), Rogers KA(4), Panagiotis B(5), 
Cui C(6), Miller C(4), Haferlach C(7), Plevova K(8), Oscier D(9), Davis Z(9), 
Nguyen-Khac F(10), Roncaglia E(11)(12), Rigolin GM(13), Athanasiadou A(14), 
Baran-Marszak F(15), Valiente A(16), Terol MJ(17), Abrisqueta P(18), Espinet 
B(19), Puiggros A(19), Martines A(20), Bonaldi L(20), Mauro FR(21), Scarfò 
L(22)(23), Chatzikonstantinou T(24), Tausch E(25), Kreuzer KA(3), Kater A(26), 
Bosch F(18), Doubek M(8), Panagiotidis P(27), Kalashnikova O(28), Frezzato F(1), 
Calabretto G(1), Ruocco V(1), Orsi S(2), Cellini A(1), Angotzi F(1), Serafin 
A(1), Yi S(6), Eichhorst B(3), Woyach JA(4), Cuneo A(13), Ghia P(22)(23), 
Stamatopoulos K(24), Trentin L(29), Bortoluzzi S(30).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Padua, Padova, Italy.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Padua, Padova, Italy.
(3)Department I of Internal Medicine, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(4)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology & Clinical Genomics Uppsala, 
Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research 
Center for Blood Diseases, Haihe Laboratory of Cell Ecosystem, Institute of 
Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College; Tianjin Institutes of Health Science, Tianjin, 
China.
(7)MLL Munich Leukemia Laboratory, Munich, Germany.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
Brno & Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(9)Molecular Pathology, University Hospitals Dorset, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, 
Bournemouth, United Kingdom.
(10)Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Service d'Hématologie Biologique, Paris, France.
(11)Computational Genomics Group, Department of Oncology, Surgery and 
Gastroenterology, University of Padua, Padova, Italy.
(12)Department of Biology, University of Padua, Padova, Italy.
(13)Hematology Section, Department of Medical Sciences, Azienda 
Ospedaliera-Universitaria, Arcispedale S. Anna, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, 
Italy.
(14)Hematology Department and HCT Unit, G. Papanicolaou Hospital, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(15)Laboratoire d'hématologie, Hopital Avicenne, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Paris, France.
(16)Servicio de Genética. Hospital Universitario de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(17)Servicio de Hematología y Oncología Médica, Hospital Clinico Universitario 
de Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(18)Department of Hematology, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), 
Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
(19)Molecular Cytogenetics Laboratory, Pathology Department, Hospital del Mar; 
Translational Research on Hematological Neoplasms Group, Cancer Research 
Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Immunology and Molecular Oncology Unit, Veneto Institute of Oncology 
IOV-IRCSS, Padova, Italy.
(21)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Hematology unit, 
'Sapienza' University, Rome, Italy.
(22)Medical School, Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milano, Italy.
(23)Division of Experimental Oncology, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, Milano, 
Italy.
(24)Institute of Applied Biosciences, Center for Research and Technology Hellas, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(25)Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(26)Department of Hematology, Cancer Center Amsterdam and Lymphoma and Myeloma 
Center Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(27)First Department of Propaedeutic, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(28)Federal State Budgetary Educational Institution of Higher Education 
Academician I.P. Pavlov First St. Petersburg State Medical University of the 
Ministry of Healthcare of Russian Federation, St. Petersburg, Russian 
Federation.
(29)Hematology Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Padua, Padova, Italy. 
livio.trentin@unipd.it.
(30)Computational Genomics Group, Department of Oncology, Surgery and 
Gastroenterology, University of Padua, Padova, Italy. 
stefania.bortoluzzi@unipd.it.
(#)Contributed equally

In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the role of complex karyotype (CK) for 
prognostic stratification remains a topic of debate, and the impact of specific 
cytogenetic abnormalities is still unclear. This study aims to investigate the 
clinical and biological features of CLL with t(14;19)(q32;q13) (tCLL) involving 
the BCL3 gene. Patients with tCLL were younger and more commonly presented 
unmutated IGHV gene, subset #8 stereotypy, trisomy of chromosome 12, and complex 
karyotype than other patients without t(14;19) (oCLL). The presence of t(14;19) 
was associated with a shorter time to treatment and overall survival compared to 
oCLL. Gene expression analysis revealed a unique transcriptome profile in tCLL, 
characterized by the upregulation of BCL3 and the activation of B-cell receptor, 
PI3K-Akt. Conversely, apoptosis-related pathways were suppressed in tCLL. While 
the BTK gene was upregulated, the BCL2L11 gene, coding for the pro-apoptotic 
protein BIM, was downregulated. Notably, patients with tCLL were characterized 
by a trend (p = 0.058) for a longer time to the next treatment with BTK 
inhibitors (BTKi) compared to those treated with a venetoclax-based (Ven-based) 
regimen. We underscore the adverse outcomes of tCLL, its distinct molecular 
features and gene expression patterns. Therefore, our data suggest that 
identifying tCLL could help tailor therapeutic approaches.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-025-02755-8
PMID: 40973766

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AV, LT PG, LS, and FRM 
attended scientific boards organized by Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, 
and AbbVie. PG received honoraria from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, BMS, 
Galapagos, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly/Loxo, MSD, and research funding from AbbVie, 
AstraZeneca, BeiGene, BMS, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly/Loxo, MSD. LyS received 
honoraria from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, and MSD. 
G.M.R. received honoraria for participation in the speakers’ bureau and advisory 
board from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, and Janssen. A.C. received honoraria for 
participation in the speakers’ bureau and advisory board from AbbVie, 
AstraZeneca, BeiGene, and Janssen Lilly. MD Advisory boards and honoraria: 
AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, Johnson and Johnson, Swixx Biopharma. The other 
authors declared no potential conflict of interest with this study. Ethics 
approval and consent to participate: The study was conducted in accordance with 
the Declaration of Helsinki, approved by the Ethics Committee of Padova 
University Hospital (protocol #4430/AO/18), and informed consent was obtained.

1. Leukemia. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41375-025-02756-7. Online ahead of print.

Clonal evolution and apoptosis resistance in myelodysplastic neoplasms and acute 
myeloid leukemia under treatment: insights from integrative longitudinal 
profiling.

Mazzeo P(1), Penir SM(2), Shumilov E(3)(4), Wolf S(5)(6)(7), Häupl 
B(5)(6)(8)(9), Markus K(3), Shirneshan K(1), Rittscher K(1), Brzuszkiewicz E(1), 
Aydilek E(3), Treiber H(1)(3), Oellerich T(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Ganster C(1), Haase 
D(#)(10)(11), Koch R(#)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, INDIGHO laboratory, University 
Medical Center Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Meiosis, Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary Sciences, 
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Medicine A for Hematology, Oncology and Pneumology, University 
Hospital Münster, Münster, Germany.
(5)Department of Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital, Goethe 
University Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(6)Frankfurt Cancer Institute (FCI), Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(7)University Cancer Center (UCT), Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(8)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), partner site Frankfurt/Mainz, a partnership 
between DKFZ and UCT Frankfurt-Marburg, Germany, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(9)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(10)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, INDIGHO laboratory, 
University Medical Center Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany. 
detlef.haase@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(11)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany. detlef.haase@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(12)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany. raphael.koch@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Treatment of high-risk Myelodysplastic Neoplasms (hr-MDS) and (secondary) Acute 
Myeloid Leukemia (AML) remains a clinical challenge. The combination of 
azacitidine and venetoclax (aza/ven) may improve treatment outcomes, but still 
fails in a significant fraction of patients. We established a single-center 
collection of longitudinal samples from patients with MDS and AML/sAML and 
performed comprehensive genetic, proteomic and functional apoptosis profiling to 
identify biomarkers and targetable escape mechanisms to aza/ven. Baseline 
genetic characterization (n = 55) identified high-risk genetic alterations, 
while longitudinal analyses (n = 268, mean 8.7 [3-20] timepoints) revealed 
distinct genetic profiles of clonal evolution. Functional BH3-profiling at 
treatment initiation identified heterogeneous dependencies on BCL-2 family 
members. Notably, high BCL-2 dependence correlated with genetic response to 
aza/ven and improved overall survival, whereas increased BCL-xL dependence was 
associated with resistance. We further identified patterns of acquired 
resistance, with loss of apoptotic priming and shifts in anti-apoptotic 
dependencies contributing to treatment failure. BH3 profiling revealed 
functional shifts toward MCL-1 and/or BCL-xL in individual cases, suggesting 
potential therapeutic targets to overcome resistance. In vitro, BCL-xL 
inhibition effectively counteracted resistance in increased BCL-xL dependence 
cases. In summary, we characterized treatment-associated clonal evolution in MDS 
and AML, providing insights into clinical response, disease progression and 
potential individualized therapeutic strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-025-02756-7
PMID: 40973765

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: DH: Advisory board, 
research support and honoraria by Bristol Myers Squibb and JAZZ. ES received 
honoraria from Amgen, BMS, Stemline, Sanofi, Incyte, Janssen, Takeda and JAZZ. 
RK received honoraria from Takeda, Janssen and Novartis. All other authors 
declare no conflict of interest. Ethics approval and consent to participate: The 
study was conducted according to the guidelines of the Declaration of Helsinki 
and approved by the local Ethics Committee of the University Medical Center 
Göttingen (application number 02-02-14). Informed consent was obtained from all 
patients.

1. Leukemia. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41375-025-02644-0. Online ahead of print.

Multi-dimensional analysis of adult acute myeloid leukemia cross-continents 
reveals age-associated trends in mutational landscape and treatment outcomes 
(Acute Myeloid Leukemia Cooperative Group & Alliance for Clinical Trials in 
Oncology).

Cusan M(#)(1), Larkin K(#)(2)(3), Nicolet D(3)(4), Jurinovic V(1), Mrózek K(3), 
Batcha AMN(5)(6), Rothenberg-Thurley M(1), Schneider S(1)(7), Sauerland C(8), 
Görlich D(8), Krug U(9), Berdel WE(10), Woermann BJ(11), Hiddemann W(1)(12)(13), 
Braess J(14), Spiekermann K(1)(12)(13), Greif PA(1)(12)(13), Blachly JS(2)(3), 
Mims AS(2)(3), Walker CJ(3), Walker MC(3)(4), Oakes CC(2)(3), Orwick S(2)(3), 
Carroll AJ(15), Blum WG(16), Powell BL(17), Kolitz JE(18), Moore JO(19), Mayer 
RJ(20), Larson RA(21), Stone RM(22), Byrd JC(23), Metzeler KH(12)(13)(24), 
Herold T(1)(12)(13), Eisfeld AK(25)(26).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Leukemia Diagnostics, Department of Medicine III, University 
Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State 
University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(3)The Clara D. Bloomfield Center for Leukemia Outcomes Research, The Ohio State 
University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(4)Alliance Statistics and Data Management Center, The Ohio State University 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Institute for Medical Information Processing, Biometry and Epidemiology, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(6)DIFUTURE (Data integration for Future Medicine), LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(7)Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(8)Institute of Biostatistics and Clinical Research, University of Münster, 
Münster, Germany.
(9)Department of Medicine 3, Klinikum Leverkusen, Leverkusen, Germany.
(10)Department of Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University of Münster, 
Münster, Germany.
(11)German Society of Hematology and Oncology, Berlin, Germany.
(12)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Munich, Munich, Germany.
(13)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(14)Department of Oncology and Hematology, Hospital Barmherzige Brüder, 
Regensburg, Germany.
(15)Department of Genetics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(16)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(17)Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(18)Zuckerberg Cancer Center, Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Lake 
Success, NY, USA.
(19)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(20)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, USA.
(21)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(22)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber/Partners CancerCare, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(23)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, 
USA.
(24)Department of Hematology, Cellular Therapy, Hemostaseology and Infectious 
Diseases, Leipzig University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany.
(25)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State 
University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA. 
Ann-Kathrin.Eisfeld@osumc.edu.
(26)The Clara D. Bloomfield Center for Leukemia Outcomes Research, The Ohio 
State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA. 
Ann-Kathrin.Eisfeld@osumc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

The outcome of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) worsens with 
increasing age. Dichotomization into "younger" and "older" patients is 
clinically routine and often dictates treatment options. We aimed to delineate 
whether molecular genetic features and/or outcome measures support assorting 
patient populations by age, including division into "younger" and "older" 
groups. We analyzed 2823 adult AML patients enrolled onto frontline 
chemotherapy-based clinical protocols of two cooperative study groups from USA 
and Germany who were profiled molecularly via targeted sequencing platforms. 
Frequencies of gene mutations and cytogenetic findings were depicted in 5-year 
age increments. Clinical outcomes of 2756 AML patients were analyzed with 
respect to molecular features, genetic-risk groups and age. Age-associated 
distributions of gene mutations and cytogenetic abnormalities were similar in 
both cohorts. There was almost linear shortening of overall survival with 
increasing age among all patients (P < 0.001) and within 2022 European 
LeukemiaNet-defined genetic-risk groups, with survival decreasing as age 
increased (favorable-risk, P < 0.001; intermediate-risk, P < 0.001; 
adverse-risk, P < 0.001). Although mutational profiles and outcomes of the 
youngest patients differed from those of older patients, there was no age 
cut-off identifying "younger" and "older" patients. These findings support more 
age-associated flexibility for drug approval and trial eligibility.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-025-02644-0
PMID: 40973764

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: All methods 
were conducted in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations. All study 
protocols were approved by the Institutional Review Boards of participating 
centers in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. All patients provided 
written informed consent for inclusion on the clinical trial and genetic 
analyses. Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program approval was obtained on September 
13, 2024. Additional details are provided in the Supplementary Information.

1. Nature. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/d41586-025-02362-8. Online ahead of print.

A Chinese AI tool can manage chronic disease - could it revolutionize health 
care?

Basu M.

DOI: 10.1038/d41586-025-02362-8
PMID: 40973751

1. Pediatr Res. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41390-025-04364-8. Online ahead of 
print.

Betaine improves hyperoxic lung injury through downregulating pulmonary 
macrophage pyroptosis in newborn mice.

Zhang J(#)(1), Zhou L(#)(1), Xu H(1), You Y(1), Xia S(1), Xia H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Neonatology, Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. xiahongping@xinhuamed.com.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a common chronic respiratory 
disease in preterm infants. NLRP3-mediated macrophage pyroptosis plays a crucial 
role in the pathogenesis of BPD. Recent evidence suggests that betaine has 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant functions. This study aimed to investigate the 
effect of betaine on pulmonary macrophage pyroptosis in BPD.
METHODS: Newborn mice were exposed to either hyperoxia (90%) or room air shortly 
after birth and treated subcutaneously with betaine daily for 14 days. Lung 
development, the expression of macrophage pyrolysis-associated proteins and the 
phospho-forkhead box O1 (p-FOXO1) were evaluated. In vitro, the effect of 
betaine on the expression of p-FOXO1 was assessed in RAW264.7 macrophages 
exposed to either 90% oxygen or 21% oxygen, with okadaic acid (OA) as 
phosphatase inhibitor.
RESULTS: Hyperoxia induced macrophage pyroptosis and impaired lung development 
in newborn mice. Betaine inhibited p-FOXO1 expression and NLRP3-mediated 
pyroptosis in pulmonary and promoted lung development in the hyperoxia-exposed 
mice. In vitro, betaine suppressed FOXO1 phosphorylation and NLRP3-mediated 
pyroptosis under 90% oxygen in RAW264.7 cells, and OA administration reversed 
these effects.
CONCLUSION: Betaine may reduce the expression of inflammatory cytokines, 
downregulate macrophage pyroptosis by inhibiting the phosphorylation of FOXO1, 
and improve lung development in BPD.
IMPACT: Our previous research showed that plasma betaine levels at 36 weeks 
postmenstrual age (PMA) were significantly lower in preterm infants with BPD 
compared to those without BPD. Betaine has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant 
functions. However, its role in pulmonary macrophage pyroptosis in BPD remains 
unknown. The study shows that betaine may downregulate macrophage pyroptosis by 
inhibiting FOXO1 phosphorylation, alleviate lung inflammation, and improve lung 
development in BPD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the International Pediatric 
Research Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41390-025-04364-8
PMID: 40973747

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval: The study was reviewed and approved by 
Ethics Committee of Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine (XHEC-F-2024-025). All methods were carried out in accordance 
with relevant guidelines and regulations.

1. Br Dent J. 2025 Sep 19. doi: 10.1038/s41415-025-8891-0. Online ahead of print.

Prevalence of disease associated with horizontal and mesioangular-impacted 
mandibular third molars in relation to age.

Wemyss C(1), Bell GW(2), McFadyen AK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Dumfries and Galloway Royal 
Infirmary, Dumfries, United Kingdom. callum.wemyss@glasgow.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Dumfries and Galloway Royal 
Infirmary, Dumfries, United Kingdom.
(3)akm stats, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

Background The management of impacted mandibular third molars (M3Ms) has been an 
area of contention over the last 25 years. This study investigated the 
prevalence of disease processes in relation to age for a sample of patients with 
horizontal and mesioangular M3Ms.Method All concomitant disease processes 
including probing pocket depths (PPDs) and alveolar bone loss (ABL) distal to 
mandibular second molars (M2Ms) were recorded from a sample of 400 
patients.Results From 536 M3M/M2M interfaces, 41% (n = 219) had a disease 
process present on the distal surface of the M2M and 11% (n = 61) had such 
significant disease that the M2M was removed. Presence of M3M caries was 38.2% 
(n = 205); localised periodontitis, 21.5% (n = 115); pericoronitis, 20.1% (n = 
108); and M2M caries, 18.5% (n = 99). No simple correlation between age and 
number of disease processes was found (r = -0.020; p = 0.648); although, the 
prevalence of M2M caries and pericoronitis was related to age (2 = 9.951; p = 
0.007 and χ2 = 12.834; p = 0.002), as was PPD and ABL (p <0.001).Conclusion(s) 
Multiple disease processes can occur concomitantly with horizontal or 
mesioangular M3Ms. Discussion of disease risk with regular clinical and 
intra-oral radiographic monitoring by general dental practitioners is 
recommended.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41415-025-8891-0
PMID: 40973733

Conflict of interest statement: Ethics declaration. The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest. Although no patient identifiers were 
collected, Caldicott Guardian approval was obtained from the Board's Head of 
Information Governance. The study was registered with NHS Dumfries and Galloway 
Research and Development Department (JC/20/DGY/037). The West of Scotland Ethics 
Service confirmed that this study did not require review from an NHS Research 
Ethics Committee. Consent to participate was not necessary for retrospective 
data collection.

1. Gerontologist. 2025 Sep 19:gnaf214. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf214. Online ahead
of  print.

Catching up with stagnation: cause-specific dynamics of change in life 
expectancy at age 65 in the United States, Canada and Latin America, 2000-2019.

Bramajo O(1), Mehta N(1), Myrskylä M(2).

Author information:
(1)Sealy Center on Aging, The University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
Texas, United States.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, 
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Recent focus on United States longevity stagnation at 
higher ages has focused on comparisons with other high-income countries, with 
less attention paid to its performance relative to peer nations in the Americas. 
This study examines changes in life expectancy at age 65 (LE65) in the United 
States, Canada, and seven Latin American countries-Argentina, Brazil, Chile, 
Costa Rica, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru-between 2000 and 2019, disaggregated by 
sex and cause of death.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This observational study used United Nations World 
Population Prospects life tables and World Health Organization death causes 
data, applying decomposition methods to assess the contribution of death causes 
to changes in LE65.
RESULTS: United States, Canada, and Costa Rica experienced substantial increases 
in LE65 during 2000-2010 in both sexes, with gains ranging from 1.3 to 2 years. 
These gains were primarily driven by reductions in cardiovascular disease (CVD) 
mortality, which contributed between 1 and 1.3 years to LE65 growth, widening 
the gap with some Latin American countries. From 2010-2019, the contribution of 
CVD to LE65 more than halved (and the relative contribution of CVD to gains in 
LE65 diminished in the United States, Canada and Mexico), and total gains in 
LE65 stagnated between 0.5 and 1 years. Females presented a higher relative 
contribution of CVD to changes in LE65 than males.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Thestagnation in LE65 observed across the Americas 
during 2010-2019 highlights the need for developing national, sex-specific 
strategies to reduce cardiovascular mortality across countries in the region.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf214
PMID: 40973729

